# Relaying NTLM to MSSQL

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2023-10-10 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.compass-security.com/2023/10/relaying-ntlm-to-mssql/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Device Code Phishing – Compass Tooling

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2023-10-24 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.compass-security.com/2023/10/device-code-phishing-compass-tooling/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# P4wnP1 LTE updates

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2023-10-27 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://sensepost.com/blog/2023/p4wnp1-lte-updates/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
After publishing my blog post about running P4wnP1 on an LTE modem, where I explained how to install Linux and P4wnP1 on an actual LTE modem for sneaky USB attacks, and then trying and failing to do an internal presentation to show it off to folks, I realised that I had not completely documented the process.<br> 
In the previous post, I also described setting up a Wireguard VPN to an Internet-accessible host, and then using SSH to access the modem over that VPN.<br> 
Furthermore, when the WiFi link was up, and Wireguard was routing over WiFi, I had no problems running the same commands.<br> 
What is MTU, though?<br> 
I used this with an ever decreasing packet size to try and figure out what the MTU of my LTE interface was.<br> 
It was defaulted to something like 1500, but to my surprise, I got all the way down to an ICMP data size of 996 before I was able to successfully get an ICMP response back.<br> 
After setting the LTE MTU to 1024, I was able to successfully establish the Wireguard VPN, and SSH connection over LTE, and execute all the commands that were failing previously.<br> 
This is because the MTU is only effective in a single direction, for packets SENT from the system, and doesn’t affect the size of packets received.<br> 
Wireguard works just fine over LTE with an MTU of 1420.<br> 
It was looking for libcomposite in lsmod output, and trying to modprobe libcomposite if it was not found.<br> 
Knowing that P4wnP1 is very old code, and that I had trouble trying to build it in the past, on top of having near zero Golang experience, I contemplated papering over it by making shims for lsmod that would return the expected output even if libcomposite was a builtin and not a module.<br> 
After a few iterations trying to figure out why my changes didn’t solve the problem, I realised that the output of rmmod libcomposite was on stderr, not stdout, and corrected my code.<br> 
Unfortunately, mac80211_hwsim is not currently compiled for the OpenStick, so I can’t do this.<br> 
For the OpenStick, the LTE interface is available.<br> 
My solution was to instruct NetworkManager not to try and manage the WiFi interface when P4wnP1 is running, using a systemd service configuration option:<br> 
I ran the following commands to download my HID to TCP proxy, install golang on the OpenStick, and build and run it:<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Introducing CS2BR pt. III – Knees deep in Binary

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2023-10-26 13:00:00+02:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.nviso.eu/2023/10/26/introducing-cs2br-pt-iii-knees-deep-in-binary/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
post in this series, we’ll take a look at one of CS2BR’s shortcomings: its reliance on source-code for patching.<br> 
So feel free to grab a coffee and prepare for a journey into the wonderful world of object files, how you can mess with them, and what I did to them.<br> 
I.<br> 
When I finished work on CS2BR’s source code patching, I realized that there were two major issues with it that caused me headaches and that I wasn’t happy with:<br> 
Source code: In order to make BOFs compatible with BRC4 in the first place, CS2BR patches a compatibility layer (and some extras) into a BOF’s source code.<br> 
You’ll then need to recompile the BOF in order to use it in BRC4.<br> 
Since you usually don’t have access to their source code, you can’t use CS2BR to patch them.<br> 
Since BOFs are object files (hence the name, beacon object files) and CS2BR’s compatibility layer can be compiled into an object file, we might just be able to merge both of them into a single object file.<br> 
Before we continue with the details of this idea, let’s have a brief look at the “Common Object File Format” (COFF) that our object files come in.<br> 
Here’s the source code of a simple BRC4 BOF that prints its input arguments:<br> 
Symbols: Symbols are used to reference various things in object files, such as sections (e.g. .text), functions (e.g. coffee) and imports (e.g. __imp_BadgerDispatch).<br> 
The first relocation entry in the .text section indicates that at offset 0x46 into the .text section, there is a reference to the .rdata symbol (which points to the .rdata section), which needs to be resolved as a relative address.<br> 
Here’s how the general CS2BR approach works: it provides the CS BOF APIs as part of its compatibility layer.<br> 
This layer in turn uses the BRC4 BOF APIs which are implemented in the BRC4 badger.<br> 
When we patch a BOF’s source code via CS2BR and compile it afterwards, the coffee entrypoint will be included in the BOF and able to invoke the original go entrypoint (*).<br> 
When both BOF and the CS2BR compatibility layer are compiled separately though, we need to ensure that those two connections are made when we merge the object files.<br> 
In order to reference bof.o‘s go entrypoint from cs2br.o, we can leverage the fact that such operations are precisely what object files and linkers are great at accomplishing: by defining go as an external symbol in cs2br.o, a linker will resolve it when also supplying it with bof.o which provides this exact symbol.<br> 
Now, when we compile CS2BR’s entrypoint in badger_stub.c and its compatibility layer beacon_wrapper.h, we observe the resulting cs2br.o‘s symbols.<br> 
In the previous section we declared go as an external symbol in cs2br.o‘s source code.<br> 
cs2br.o exports BeaconPrintf as a symbol that is contained in section #1 (.text) is a function (ty 20) is at offset 0x5e1 into its section bof.o exports __imp_BeaconPrintf as a symbol that has the __imp_ prefix, indicating that this function was declared using __declspec(import) and needs to be imported at runtime is an external symbol (section value IMAGE_SYM_UNDEFINED) is not a function (ty 0) bof.o also references __imp_BeaconPrintf in a relocation in the .text section.<br> 
Which makes sense considering that BeaconPrintf is imported from the CS BOF API and its implementation is not included in the BOF’s source code.<br> 
If we wanted to make the linker resolve these references in bof.o like it did with the go symbol in cs2br.o above, we would need cs2br.o to export not the function implementations but pointers to those implementations.<br> 
How can we modify parts (such as symbols) of object files?<br> 
Since I wanted to stick with Python for the tooling for this project and couldn’t find a suitable solution for my needs, I decided to implement this functionality based on a Python library I programmed in the past: structex.<br> 
It’s safe to assume that any program that executes BOFs does that in a way that is somewhat similar to TrustedSec’s COFFLoader.<br> 
Now I could use COFFLoader to run my BOFs and Visual Studio and x64dbg to debug both COFFLoader and my CS2BR BOFs, neat!<br> 
After merging both object files, the __imp_ symbols (that originated from bof.o) to CS BOF APIs are replaced with the __cs2br_ symbols (provided by cs2br.o).<br> 
This will make ld correctly resolve this symbol to the BOF’s entrypoint when we merge both object files.<br> 
This ensures that, if any of those APIs are used by the BOF, BRC4 imports and links them before executing the BOF.<br> 
When I tested my BOFs at that point and saw COFFLoader crashing, I did a lot of manual investigation by debugging COFFLoader and tracing back why it crashed.<br> 
The 0xDEADBEEFDEADBEF is a dummy value I made COFFLoader pass to the coffee entrypoint to use as the _dispatch variable.<br> 
It should be pointing to 0x00007FF45D070621 though, as the .text section is mapped to 0x00007FF45D070000 and BeaconPrintf‘s offset into this section is 0x621.<br> 
There are two .text symbols, of which one has an offset of 0x40 into the .text section.<br> 
The ADDR64 relocations for the entries in .data could be read as: “Read the relocation’s current value from its offset into .data (aka its ‘addend’), add to it the absolute address of the .text-0x40 symbol, and write the calculated sum back at the relocation entry’s offset in .data.” This doesn’t quite work though: these relocations aren’t relative to a symbol but to the section their symbols reside in.<br> 
are of type IMAGE_REL_AMD64_ADDR64 and are associated to a symbol that doesn’t refer to a section but to an offset within a section (e.g. .text-0x40).<br> 
It works well in a modified COFFLoader that provides a simple BRC4 BOF API but doesn’t seem to work with BRC4’s badgers.<br> 
</blockquote>

---

