# Microsoft BitLocker Bypasses are Practical

Авторы: 
URS MÜLLER

Дата: 
2024-02-13 00:00:00

Теги: 
['bitlocker', 'hardware', 'microsoft']

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.compass-security.com/2024/02/microsoft-bitlocker-bypasses-are-practical/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
If a laptop is lost or stolen, an attacker who gains physical possession of the machine cannot access the data or tamper with the system, even when removing the disk and accessing it from another system.<br> 
BitLocker Configuration<br> 
In the TPM-only mode, the Volume Master Key (VMK) is released during boot and sent to the CPU.<br> 
This gives an attacker the opportunity to sniff the data channel and intercept the VMK.<br> 
TPM: In the TPM-only mode, the user is not required to provide a protector to unlock the TPM.<br> 
During boot, the boot environment is measured, meaning that the firmware and software that is loaded is tracked and the measurement values are stored in the Platform Configuration Registers (PCR).<br> 
TPM and PIN: The VMK is only released to the CPU after the user has provided the correct PIN.<br> 
TPM and Startup Key: The VMK is only released to the CPU after the user has provided the correct startup key.<br> 
Attack<br> 
The goal of the attack is to sniff the communication between the TPM chip and the CPU.<br> 
Afterwards, the BitLocker recovery key can be obtained with the Sigrok BitLocker Key Extractor tool:<br> 
This section discusses various mitigation strategies as well as operational considerations that require attention in practice.<br> 
Recall from a previous section that the attack exploits the fact that in TPM-only mode the VMK is automatically released and sent to the CPU during boot, allowing the attacker to recover it by sniffing the bus communication.<br> 
If tamper protection is detected, the system will either prompt the user for the BIOS password or the BitLocker recovery key during the next boot cycle.<br> 
Naturally, it cannot be guaranteed that the PIN can be kept secret, and a motivated attacker might very well be able to learn it through several means.<br> 
An attacker in possession of the PIN can carry out the same attack as described in the previous section, with the only exception that they have to enter the PIN during boot to release the VMK.<br> 
Depending on the environment or the type of adversary, the most secure BitLocker configuration might not offer adequate protection.<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Luring the Threat: Lessons from ICS Honeypots in Ukraine and Germany

Авторы: 
CHRISTIAN FEUCHTER

Дата: 
2024-02-27 00:00:00

Теги: 
['honeypot', 'ics', 'research']

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.compass-security.com/2024/02/luring-the-threat-lessons-from-custom-ics-honeypots-in-ukraine-and-germany/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
In this exploration, we delve into these questions, using data collected from honeypots mimicking different ICS products in both Ukraine and Germany, to better understand the landscape of cyber intrusions in this specific field.<br> 
Fundamentals of Industrial Control Systems<br> 
Industrial Control Systems (ICS) are crucial for monitoring and managing complex industrial processes and systems.<br> 
In the evolving landscape of those systems, there has been a emergence of devices that serve as a bridge between traditional ICS components, using industrial protocols, and more modern technologies featuring, e.g., Internet connection via cellular network, HMI displays integrated into web interfaces, and more.<br> 
Often, attackers compromise the business network of an industrial company without directly impacting the Industrial Control System (ICS) infrastructure.<br> 
Attackers used social engineering to access the business network, subsequently compromising the industrial control systems.<br> 
Unlike other ICS malware attacks, this one did not target specific product vulnerabilities.<br> 
Furthermore, the malware had the capability to erase systems and overwrite configuration files of industrial control systems [9].<br> 
Additionally, it is likely that publicly accessible web-based SCADA software from Advantech/Broadwin were directly targeted as well [10].<br> 
2023: In November and December 2023, the Iranian-backed hacktivist group Cyber Avengers successfully compromised ICS devices at two water distribution facilities in the United States [14] and Ireland [15] by using the default password (CVE-2023-6448).<br> 
Additionally, some advanced functionalities were emulated, such as a web-based Command Line Interface (CLI).<br> 
This feature allows for operations like internal network enumeration with ping, including simulated responses from various internal IP addresses.<br> 
HTTP requests not classified as malicious:<br> 
HTTP requests classified as malicious:<br> 
Out of the total interactions, 46’930 were categorized as malicious, while 37’017 were identified as non-malicious requests.<br> 
The systems located in Germany recorded a marginally higher number of malicious requests, totaling 24’842, compared to those in Ukraine, which registered 22’088 such requests.<br> 
In this experiment, the source IP of each attack was determined using the MaxMind GeoLite2 Country database.<br> 
It shows that the honeypots received malicious requests from around the world.<br> 
41% of the malicious requests originated from those three countries.<br> 
Figure 2: Malicious request by country<br> 
The bar chart below categorizes the top 20 countries by the number of malicious requests they have made to honeypot systems in Germany and Ukraine.<br> 
This is explained by the fact that all systems exposed online are subject to constant scanning, and automated exploit attempts are made against a wide range of products.<br> 
The bulk of these requests originated from two IP addresses located in the UK, followed by a significant number from Germany.<br> 
Despite originating from various IP addresses in Russia, Poland, and Turkey, the attacks used similar credentials and identical HTTP request parameters like User-Agent, Accept and Accept-Language.<br> 
The attacks were geographically dispersed, with 43 HTTP requests targeting the system in Germany and 41 in Ukraine.<br> 
From 24 out of total 29 IP addresses, malicious requests were sent to systems in both Germany and Ukraine:<br> 
An example of the activities conducted by one of the attacker IP addresses:<br> 
Upon further examination, it was discovered that at least 20 water supply facilities using the same product were susceptible to this vulnerability.<br> 
There is a significantly high volume of automated reconnaissance and exploitation attacks targeting devices accessible via the Internet.<br> 
Furthermore, the ICS network should be isolated from the business network as well.<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Top things that you might not be doing (yet) in Entra Conditional Access

Авторы: 
Guillaume Bossiroy

Дата: 
2024-02-27 09:00:14+01:00

Теги: 
['tagged', 'azure ad', 'conditional access', 'policies', 'external access', 'entra id', 'mfa', 'strong authentication', 'b2b', 'zero trust']

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.nviso.eu/2024/02/27/top-things-that-you-might-not-be-doing-yet-in-entra-conditional-access/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
The following points are, in my opinion, some of the most important security controls that can be enforced and configured using Conditional Access to improve the overall security posture of your Azure or Microsoft 365 tenant.<br> 
Additionally, should you need any introduction to what Entra Conditional Access is and which security controls are available, feel free to have a look at this post: https://blog.nviso.eu/2023/05/24/enforce-zero-trust-in-microsoft-365-part-3-introduction-to-conditional-access/.<br> 
Entra Conditional Access security controls Enforce strong authentication for all users<br> 
something you have: a phone, an application, a token, etc.<br> 
So, if you are not doing it yet, make sure that all identities are regularly prompted multi-factor authentication when they are authenticating to your environment.<br> 
Conditional Access policy – Require Multi-Factor Authentication for all users<br> 
Once the policy is enabled, MFA will be required for all users when authenticating to a cloud application using their company account.<br> 
The new policy can be configured in Entra ID > Protection > Authentication methods > Policies:<br> 
Microsoft Entra Authentication Methods<br> 
For instance, if I want to access a Tenant B Azure environment using an account in Tenant A, I could do it in two different ways:<br> 
As MFA in the resource tenant is not enforced on my account, I will gain access to the environment without any further authentication requirements, “bypassing” MFA from my home tenant.<br> 
Because of that, MFA should be enforced in the resource tenant (too) to prevent that a user account with a compromised password that has been invited as a guest user in your tenant could access your environment without any restrictions.<br> 
Therefore, when using legacy authentication, users are only prompted for their password to sign-in.<br> 
To control the use of legacy authentication protocols across your Microsoft 365 environment, we recommend configuring a Conditional Access policy.<br> 
The following policy can be used to directly block legacy authentication (recommended): Conditional Access policy – Block Legacy Authentication protocols To indirectly block legacy authentication, the grant control could be set to “Require multi-factor authentication”, “Require device to be marked as compliant”, and/or “Require Microsoft Entra hybrid joined device” instead of “Block”.<br> 
Using a dedicated policy to block legacy authentication is recommended as exclusions on users, applications, locations, etc., that may apply for the above grant controls might not apply to the use of legacy authentication protocols in your environment.<br> 
By default, the sign-in frequency in Entra ID is 90 days.<br> 
How can the sign-in frequency be configured in Entra ID?<br> 
), Entra Conditional Access policies should be used.<br> 
At the tenant level, it can be configured in the User settings by setting the Show keep user signed in toggle to On or Off:<br> 
Microsoft Entra ID user settings<br> 
However, it is recommended to define it for every use case, such as user, including guest user, or administrative access, and access to sensitive resources or information, from managed or unmanaged devices, from trusted or untrusted locations, etc.<br> 
Because of that, it is usually recommended to restrict those actions by requiring strong authentication and / or by requiring users to be in a trusted location.<br> 
Note that the “Devices to be Microsoft Entra joined or Microsoft Entra registered require multifactor authentication”-setting in Entra ID should be set to ‘No’ first, before configuring a Conditional Access policy to require MFA on device join or registration.<br> 
Microsoft Entra ID device settings<br> 
This can be done using a Conditional Access policy.<br> 
Sign-in attempts from service principals can be covered by Conditional Access policies but it requires additional Entra ID Workload Identities Premium licenses.<br> 
They are considered as the most secure option as you do not have to manage any credentials for them.<br> 
Note that it is recommended to use Conditional Access policies instead of the Identity Protection policies directly as Conditional Access allows for better granularity and more control over the configuration.<br> 
What authentication and verification methods are available in Microsoft Entra ID?<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Mail in the Middle – A tool to automate spear phishing campaigns

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2024-02-26 00:00:00

Теги: 
['categories: phishing, tool, typosquatting']

Ссылка на контент: 
https://sensepost.com/blog/2024/mail-in-the-middle-a-tool-to-automate-spear-phishing-campaigns/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
I developed a tool that we named Mail-in-the-Middle (Maitm for short).<br> 
If we positioned ourselves in between the sender of an email (be it a person or a system) and the legitimate recipient, we may be able to capture plenty of information about the business, including personally identifiable information, email verification processes, etc.<br> 
What if an attacker finds that they were receiving OTP’s for an account registration.<br> 
Register a good number of typos of the target’s domain Configure the DNS with the MX record pointing to an attacker-controlled mail server Configure a catch-all email address to read all these “Stranded Emails”.<br> 
As I’ve mentioned before, registering domains that are typo’s of the target’s domain (mostly domains that you would type if you fat-fingered an email address) is key.<br> 
For example, if the target was mydomain.com, you would register domains like mydoain.com,  mydomian.com or mdyomian.com.<br> 
Once we have registered a good number of these domains, we set the MX DNS records of all these domains to point to our mailbox.<br> 
This is a good sign, the catch-all rule is working.<br> 
Depending on the configuration you have set, the flow should be similar to the following:<br> 
Filter emails you want (defined in filter.yml) Inject a tracking URL (if defined in injections.yml) Inject a UNC path as image to exfiltrate NetNTLM hashes (if defined injections.yml) Replace/Inject attached files (if defined in injections.yml) Replace legitimate links with attacker-controlled links (if defined in injections.yml) Fix typos on the destination(s) email address(es) (defined in typos.yml) Forward the email to the corrected email address (defined by the CLI argument -f).<br> 
The source of the email can be defined in misc.yml, e.g. security@mircosoft.com.<br> 
Now that you know the general flow and functionality of Maitm, you just need it to run.<br> 
When you run Maitm on your server, you should see something like this in the console:<br> 
Leave this script running in background and when a recipient receives a email (and if the user allowed remote content to be displayed in the email client) you should get a hit on your tracking pixel and will be notified like this:<br> 
Discord notification of a tracking pixel injected in a forwarded email being rendered in the target’s mail client.<br> 
When we think about the security implications of typo’d domains, we immediately think of phishing sent from that domain to our business, but we forget about the implications of the emails sent to that typo’d domain.<br> 
The emails sent to these domains often contain a trove of sensitive data, which could include Personally Identifiable Information (PII), business infrastructure information, business meeting invites, bills, etc.<br> 
For this attack, if an attacker defined an MX record for a similar domain, they are most likely receiving emails you were supposed to be receiving!<br> 
For example, registering ms.com for microsoft.com and encouraging using the shorter version for email communications and user registration in third-party provider applications.<br> 
</blockquote>

---

