# Rubeus – Now With More Kekeo

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2018-10-04 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/rubeus-now-with-more-kekeo/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
It presents the TGT along with an Authenticator encrypted with the session key- this proves the client knows the session key returned in the initial authentication exchange (and therefore also contained in the TGT.)<br> 
This returns information about all of the cached Kerberos tickets for the specified user logon session.<br> 
For each bit of ticket information from the cache, build a KERB_RETRIEVE_TKT_REQUEST structure with a message type of KerbRetrieveEncodedTicketMessage, the logon session ID we’re currently iterating over, and the target server (i.e. SPN) of the ticket from the cache we’re iterating over.<br> 
This returns information about all of the cached Kerberos tickets for the current user’s logon session.<br> 
For each bit of ticket information from the cache, build a KERB_RETRIEVE_TKT_REQUEST structure with a message type of KerbRetrieveEncodedTicketMessage and the target server (i.e. SPN) of the ticket from the cache we’re iterating over.<br> 
This means that without elevation, you can not extract usable TGT .kirbis for the current user, as the required session key is nulled.<br> 
The asktgs action accepts the same /dc:X /ptt parameters as the asktgt.<br> 
This ticket needs to be a .kirbi representation of a TGT (complete with session key, as described earlier) so we can properly request a service ticket in a TGS-REQ/TGS-REP exchange.<br> 
C:\Temp\tickets>Rubeus.exe asktgs /ticket:doIFFjCCBRKgAwIBBa...(snip...)== /service:LDAP/primary.testlab.local,cifs/primary.testlab.local /ptt<br> 
Operationally, if you are not elevated and don’t want to stomp on your existing logon session’s TGT by applying a new TGT as described last week, you can request a TGT for a given account and use this blob with asktgs to request/apply just the service tickets needed.<br> 
The tgtdeleg feature is a re-coded version of Kekeo’s tgt::deleg function, and allows you to extract a usable TGT .kirbi from the current user without elevation on the system.<br> 
One of these structures contains a forwarded TGT for the current user in a KRB-CRED (.kirbi) structure that’s encrypted within the AP-REQ intended to be sent to the target server.<br> 
The session key used to encrypt the Authenticator/KRB-CRED is contained within a service ticket for the target SPN that’s cached in an accessible location.<br> 
This requests a delegate TGT, meaning “The server can use the context to authenticate to other servers as the client.” We also specify a SPN for a server with unconstrained delegation (by default HOST/DC.domain.com) for the pszTargetName.<br> 
First, a TGS-REQ/TGS-REP exchange occurs to request a service ticket for the SPN we’re pretending to delegate to.<br> 
This service ticket is stored in the local Kerberos cache, meaning we can later extract the shared session key.<br> 
The KDC will return this new TGT with a separate session key from the current TGT.<br> 
The system then uses this forwarded TGT to build an AP-REQ for the target server, where the Authenticator within the request contains the usable KRB-CRED encoding of the forwarded TGT.<br> 
We can then extract the service ticket session key from the cache and use this to decrypt the Authenticator extracted from the AP-REQ.<br> 
This would allow you to extract the user’s credential without elevation and keep it alive on another system for reuse, for up to 7 days (by default.)<br> 
The AP-REQ message contains the user’s TGT blob, and an Authenticator encrypted with the TGT session key from the TGT .kirbi.<br> 
If the password set is successful, a KRB-PRIV structure is returned with a result code of 0 (KRB5_KPASSWD_SUCCESS.)<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Another Word on Delegation

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2018-10-25 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/another-word-on-delegation/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Rubeus – Now With More Kekeo

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2018-10-04 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/rubeus-now-with-more-kekeo/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

