# Not A Security Boundary: Breaking Forest Trusts

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2018-11-28 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/not-a-security-boundary-breaking-forest-trusts/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
For years Microsoft has stated that the forest was the security boundary in Active Directory.<br> 
For example, Microsoft’s “What Are Domains and Forests?” document (last updated in 2014) has a “Forests as Security Boundaries” section which states (emphasis added):<br> 
Each forest is a single instance of the directory, the top-level Active Directory container, and a security boundary for all objects that are located in the forest.<br> 
By applying the MS-RPRN abuse issue (previously reported to Microsoft Security Response Center by my workmate Lee Christensen) with various trust scenarios, we determined that administrators from one forest can in fact compromise resources in a forest that it shares a two-way interforest trust with.<br> 
The tl;dr non-technical explanation of “Why Care?” is that if your organization has a two-way forest trust (possibly ‘external’ trusts as well, more on that later) with another Active Directory forest, and if an attacker can compromise a single machine with unconstrained delegation (e.g. a domain controller) in that foreign forest, then they can leverage this to compromise your forest and every domain within it.<br> 
The tl;dr technical explanation is due to several default Active Directory forest configurations (detailed in the “Attack Explanation” section below) an attacker who compromises a domain controller in a forest (or any server with unconstrained delegation in said forest) can coerce domain controllers in foreign forests to authenticate to the attacker-controlled server through “the printer bug.” Due to various delegation settings, the foreign domain controller’s ticket-granting-ticket (TGT) can be extracted on the attacker-controlled server, reapplied, and used to compromise the credential material in the foreign forest.<br> 
This means that any user that does not have the “Account is sensitive and cannot be delegated” setting on their account or is not contained within the “Protected Users” group will send their TGT within a service ticket when accessing a server with unconstrained delegation.<br> 
According to Microsoft, “When full delegation is enabled for Kerberos on a server, the server can use the delegated ticket-granting ticket (TGT) to connect as the user to any server, including those across a one way trust.“ This means that delegated TGT tickets can cross interforest trust boundaries.<br> 
Many of the default rights for users in a forest are granted through the Authenticated Users.” This means that any user in a trusted forest can execute the “printer bug” against machines in a foreign forest, as “Authenticated Users” is all the access needed to trigger the forced authentication.<br> 
Combined together, this means that if FORESTA has a two way interforest trust with FORESTB, then the compromise of any domain controller (or any server with unconstrained delegation) in FORESTB can be leveraged to compromise the FORESTA forest root (or vice versa) and all domains within it!<br> 
FORESTA’s domain controller will authenticate to the attacker-controlled server in FORESTB with the FORESTA domain controller machine account (DCA$ in this case).<br> 
However, as the forest is specified as the trust boundary, this is not quite as interesting as the compromise of interforest trusts that this new attack entails.<br> 
We believe this is because while delegation TGTs can flow from FORESTA to FORESTB in this case, users in FORESTB cannot authenticate to FORESTA, so they do not receive a referral ticket with “Authenticated Users” within in it.<br> 
As external trusts are notoriously difficult to get functioning 100% with Kerberos (see the Kerberos V5 support section of Table 1 External vs. Forest Trusts in the “Technologies for Federating Multiple Forests” documentation), “Microsoft recommends a forest trust be created between forests rather than an external trust.” We believe it is likely that NTLM relay abuse scenarios exist to abuse the same issue in external trust types but do not currently have a completely functioning proof of concept.<br> 
Users from the Red Forest are then added to the BUILTIN\Administrators groups on domain controllers in the production forests for domain controller administration.<br> 
However, there may be situations where domain controllers or other privileged users from the trusted domain (FORESTA in this case) authenticate to the attacker-controller domain controller in FORESTB.<br> 
This can be a domain trust or a forest trust.<br> 
This implies that there may be bastion forest setups where the CORP forest has a two-way interforest trust with the PRIV forest and is abusable via the attack described in this post.<br> 
I tested two trust-related security mitigations: selective authentication and the disabling of TGT delegation across trusts.<br> 
Selective authentication is a security setting that can be set on interforest trusts.<br> 
If the domain controllers in each domain are granted this right on each other, then the attack can succeed, assuming an attacker has code execution as SYSTEM on a domain controller in FORESTB, which uses the DCB$ machine account when querying FORESTA and the subsequent printer bug trigger.<br> 
So in most realistic scenarios where selective authentication is configured for at least domain controllers between the trusting forests, the attack may still work.<br> 
However, as the setting was only set in FORESTA, not in FORESTB, the attack will still work from FORESTA to FORESTB, as delegated TGTs can still flow from FORESTB to FORESTA:<br> 
We also caution against believing these specific steps to be any kind of silver bullet, as there are some very interesting attack scenarios beyond just domain controllers.<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Not A Security Boundary: Breaking Forest Trusts

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2018-11-28 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/not-a-security-boundary-breaking-forest-trusts/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

