# A Case Study in Wagging the Dog: Computer Takeover

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2019-02-28 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/activedirectory/a-case-study-in-wagging-the-dog-computer-takeover/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Kerberoasting Revisited

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2019-02-20 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/kerberoasting-revisited/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
For more information on Rubeus, check out the “From Kekeo to Rubeus” release post, the follow up “Rubeus – Now With More Kekeo”, or the recently revamped Rubeus README.md.<br> 
The service ticket is encrypted with the hash of the account with the requested SPN registered, using the highest level encryption key that both the attacker and the service account support.<br> 
Since the service ticket was encrypted with the hash of the account linked to the requested SPN, the attacker can crack this encrypted blob offline to recover the account’s plaintext password.<br> 
Also, all examples here are run from a Windows 10 client, against a Server 2012 domain controller with a 2012 R2 domain functional level.<br> 
This requires credentials for a domain account to perform the roasting, since a TGT needs to be requested for use in the later service ticket requests.<br> 
Another advantage of this approach is that the existing user’s TGT is used to request the service tickets, meaning we don’t need plaintext credentials or a user’s hash to perform the Kerberoasting.<br> 
On the host side, I used to believe that the KerberosRequestorSecurityToken approach requested RC4 tickets by default as this is typically what is returned, but in fact the “normal” ticket request behavior occurs where all supported ciphers are supported.<br> 
This method requests a service ticket specified by the supplied SPN so it can build an AP-REQ containing the service ticket for SOAP requests, and we can see above that it performs proper “normal” requests and states it supports AES encryption types.<br> 
According to Microsoft’s [MS-ADA2], “The Key Distribution Center (KDC) uses this information [msDS-SupportedEncryptionTypes] while generating a service ticket for this account.” So even if a domain supports AES encryption (i.e. domain functional 2008 and above) the value of the msDS-SupportedEncryptionTypes field on the account with the requested SPN registered is what determines the encryption level for the service ticket returned in the Kerberoasting process.<br> 
If this property is not defined, or is set to 0, [MS-KILE] 3.3.5.7 tells us the default behavior is to use a value of 0x7, meaning RC4 will be used to encrypt the service ticket.<br> 
If we select “This account supports AES [128/256] bit encryption” in Active Directory Users and Computers, then the msDS-SupportedEncryptionTypes is set to 24, specifying only AES 128/256 encryption should be supported.<br> 
But as I mentioned in the first section, this method requests that highest supported encryption type when requesting a service ticket.<br> 
For user accounts that have AES enabled, this default method will return ticket with an encryption type of AES256 (type 18 in the hash):<br> 
Now, an obvious alternative method for Rubeus’ Kerberoasting would be to allow an existing TGT blob/file to be specified that would then be used in the ticket requests.<br> 
Well, you need a ticket-granting-ticket to build the raw TGS-REQ service ticket request, so you need to either a) be elevated on a system and extract out another user’s TGT or b) have a user’s hash that you use with the asktgt module to request a new TGT.<br> 
There have also been times in the field where the default KerberosRequestorSecurityToken Kerberoasting method has just failed- we’re hoping that the /tgtdeleg option may work in some of these situations.<br> 
If we want to go a bit further and avoid the possible “encryption downgrade” indicator, we can search for accounts that don’t have AES encryption types supported, and then state we support all encryption types in the service ticket request.<br> 
As always, if I made some mistake in this post, let me know and I’ll correct it as soon as I can!<br> 
</blockquote>

---

# Kerberoasting Revisited

Авторы: 
None

Дата: 
2019-02-20 00:00:00

Теги: 
None

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.harmj0y.net/redteaming/kerberoasting-revisited/

Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
None<br> 
</blockquote>

---

