# Paris ditches big screens for Qatar World Cup

https://www.dw.com/en/paris-ditches-big-screens-for-qatar-world-cup/a-63332384
<blockquote>
The deputy mayor of Paris said there would be no fanzones with large TV screens in the city during the World Cup in Qatar. 

This comes amid widespread criticism of the treatment of migrant laborers building stadiums and other facilities in the country ahead of the competition. 

"For us, there was no question of setting up big screen areas for several reasons: the first is the conditions in which this World Cup has been organized, both in terms of the environmental and the social aspect," Deputy Mayor Pierre Rabadan told the AFP news agency. 

"The second is the fact that it takes place in December," he said. 

Common trend in France 

A string of French cities have made similar announcements of late. According to French newspaper Le Monde, Marseille, Bordeaux and Nacy are among the more recent to join the initiative, following on from Strasbourg, Lille and Reims.

Le Monde quoted Marseille's city council as saying the tournament had turned into "a human and environmental catastrophe 
</blockquote>

---

# 'The Satanic Verses': The long road to German publication

https://www.dw.com/en/the-satanic-verses-the-long-road-to-german-publication/a-63276797
<blockquote>
When Salman Rushdie's fourth novel, "The Satanic Verses," appeared in its English-language first edition on September 26, 1988, the writer could not yet have imagined that this book would fundamentally change his life.

Now, nearly 34 years later, numerous festivals and literary associations have invited people to solidarity readings — not to mark this year's anniversary, but because of the assassination attempt against Rushdie decades after Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for the author's murder in February 1989. 

"The Satanic Verses" was first published in Britain, then in the United States, Italy and France. Muslims quickly protested against the novel and its author. South Africa, India and Pakistan stopped the import of the book; people ended up dying during demonstrations.

In London, where Rushdie was living at the time, there were also violent protests, arson attacks and threats against bookstores selling the novel.

Rushdie's story is about two Indian 
</blockquote>

---

# Germany: Eurowings pilots to go on strike on Thursday

https://www.dw.com/en/germany-eurowings-pilots-to-go-on-strike-on-thursday/a-63333174
<blockquote>
Just weeks after a similar strike brought parent company Lufthansa to a standstill, Germany's Eurowings airline on Tuesday announced a 24-hour work stoppage.

The strike will take place on Thursday, starting at midnight, according to the pilots' union Cockpit. 

What do Eurowings pilots demand?

Pilots are striking for better pay and working conditions, saying things have reached a crisis point after two years of a pandemic and soaring inflation exacerbated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Cockpit is asking for increased time off between flights and a reduction in maximum work hours for pilots on the low-cost carrier. The last time these conditions were improved by management was 2015, the union said.

The union said it was aware that the strike would affect customers, but added that Eurowings executives had left workers with no other option.

"We are open to discussion as to how we can create manageable working hours for Eurowings employees in the long term," said Marcel Gröls, of Co
</blockquote>

---

# England's WSL: Is it living up to the hype?

https://www.dw.com/en/englands-wsl-is-it-living-up-to-the-hype/a-63286432
<blockquote>
For Leah Williamson, beating your biggest rivals in front of tens of thousands is becoming a habit. Two months after lifting Euro 2022 in front of 87,192 people at Wembley, she was reflecting on the impressive crowd of 47,367 that had seen Arsenal ease to a 4-0 win over Spurs 15 kilometers across London at The Emirates Stadium at the end of September.

"I think it [a rise in attendances] was on its way before COVID hit and set us back a little bit again. But now these are the people that are interested in watching, those people are fans of the game and they will come to watch us again and again and again, I hope," she told DW, before striking a slightly more cautious note.

"It's just got to be at the right time and that's when the sustainability of the game comes in. I question it because it has to be fixture-friendly with the men's team and there's a lot of things [to fall in to place for] a day like today."




Those things are increasingly starting to happen in England. That weeken
</blockquote>

---

# Trump requests Supreme Court intervene in Mar-a-Lago case

https://www.dw.com/en/trump-requests-supreme-court-intervene-in-mar-a-lago-case/a-63335142
<blockquote>
Former US President Donald Trump has asked the Supreme Court to intervene in his legal battle over classified documents that were seized at his Mar-a-Lago mansion on August 8.

On Tuesday, Trump's lawyers filed a request with the Supreme Court to overturn a previous ruling from the Court of Appeals that prevented an independent arbiter requested by Trump, known as a special master, from vetting more than 100 classified documents that were among 11,000 records seized by FBI agents.

In the filing on Tuesday, Trump's legal team said the special master should have access to "determine whether documents bearing classification markings are in fact classified, and regardless of classification, whether those records are personal records or presidential records."

Lawyers point to Trump's 'absolute authority'

On September 15, New York Judge Raymond Dearie was appointed as a special master, tasked with screening the documents and weeding out anything that may be covered by attorney-client priv
</blockquote>

---

# Depeche Mode to release new album and go on world tour

https://www.dw.com/en/depeche-mode-to-release-new-album-and-go-on-world-tour/a-63329463
<blockquote>
Like other musical greats such as Elton John or Bob Dylan, the members of British electro-pop band Depeche Mode are not ready to retire. And why should they be? The icons of the new wave scene still have a place in the hearts of fans around the world, decades after their rise to fame in the 1980s.

The band's remaining permanent members, guitarist and keyboardist Martin Gore and lead singer Dave Gahan, announced in Berlin on October 4 that they will release a new album "towards the end of March" and embark on a world tour.

The band had been recording their latest album in Santa Barbara and will soon return to New York to finish it.

Gahan said they had "a really good time together doing it" and had started writing a couple years ago, before the passing of founding keyboardist Andy Fletcher, aka "Fletch," who died at his home on May 26 after an aortic dissection, in which a tear occurs in the inner layer of the body's main artery.

 Band member remembered

"I think that it's important 
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's largest power producer to end coal use by 2030

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-largest-power-producer-to-end-coal-use-by-2030/a-63329444
<blockquote>
German energy giant RWE said on Tuesday that it had reached an agreement with the government to phase out coal by 2030, bringing forward the target by eight years.

The move speeds up the closure of a number of large fossil fuel-fired power plants.

With EU countries in the midst of a power crisis, the producer said it would have to keep its Neurath D and E power plant units on the grid "to strengthen security of supply." Neurath is a lignite-fired power station situated near the western town of Grevenbroich.

In July, Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government announced the temporary reactivation of 27 mothballed oil and coal-fired power plants to help fill the energy shortfall until March 2024.

What RWE said about the coal phaseout

RWE CEO Markus Krebber pointed out the need to maintain the supply while keeping in line with targets to phaseout polluting fuel sources.

"As more coal is needed in the short term, thereby leading to rising carbon dioxide emissions, we will need an earlier coa
</blockquote>

---

# South Korea, US launch missiles after North Korea test

https://www.dw.com/en/south-korea-us-launch-missiles-after-north-korea-test/a-63335231
<blockquote>
South Korea and the United States fired four missiles into the Sea of Japan, Seoul said on Wednesday, a day after North Korea launched an intermediate-range missile over Japan for the first time in five years.

The two countries each fired a pair of US-made ATACMS short-range ballistic missiles, according to a statement.

The South Korean military said the launches were a retaliation to Pyongyang's farthest-ever missile test. South Korea's President Yoon Suk Yeol had previously vowed a "stern response" against the North.

Separately, South Korea also launched a Hyunmoo-2 missile that malfunctioned shortly after launch and crashed, causing panic in the city of Gangneung. There were no reports of injuries.

Play Video
North Korea fires ballistic missile over Japan
Military drills ramp up

The missile launches come just over a month after Seoul and Washington kicked off the biggest joint military exercise in the region in years.

Earlier on Tuesday, a South Korean F-15K fighter jet droppe
</blockquote>

---

# Taiwan: Does Germany parliamentary visit risk antagonizing China?

https://www.dw.com/en/taiwan-does-germany-parliamentary-visit-risk-antagonizing-china/a-63329462
<blockquote>
A delegation of six German lawmakers arrived in Taiwan on Sunday for a five-day official visit and met the island's president, Tsai Ing-wen, on Monday.  

In comments to Tsai, Klaus-Peter Willsch, chair of the German-Taiwan Parliamentary Friendship Group, said China's threats against Taiwan were unacceptable.

"In Europe, we have been experiencing a big neighbor invading a small neighbor and trying to impose its will with military force since February 24," he said, referring to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"We do not consider it acceptable that you are threatened by a neighbor with military force, to be forced into unwanted cooperation," he said. "The German Bundestag is clear in its rejection of that."

Tsai said she was grateful for Germany's support of Taiwan's participation in international organizations, and for raising concerns over rising tensions across the Taiwan Strait.

Berlin's balancing act with China 

Despite the lack of official diplomatic relations, Taiwan ranks fift
</blockquote>

---

# European farmers struggle to contain deadly bird flu

https://www.dw.com/en/european-farmers-struggle-to-contain-deadly-bird-flu/a-63302531
<blockquote>
Pictures of dead wild birds' carcasses, people in white suits carrying dead poultry out of barns – these are not new to anyone involved in poultry farming or bird conservation all across Europe.

Poultry farmer Alrik Visscher from Dalfsen in the eastern part of the Netherlands is one of the farmers who has lost all his birds because of the flu. Visscher runs a family farm together with his parents, where four of his barns are now empty. Normally, up to 115,000 chickens would be walking around here, picking grain and laying eggs. Now, the Visschers are cleaning and disinfecting everything.

It was August 1 when Visscher discovered the first signs of the bird flu in some of his birds: They were quieter, blinking, some already dead. Just a day later, all the other chickens were culled as a protective measure.

"It's a mess what you feel: You feel sad, but you also feel: We have to do it like this," Visscher remembers. "Because you have so many chickens, you don't think you have bond with 
</blockquote>

---

# 'The Satanic Verses': The long road to German publication

https://www.dw.com/en/the-satanic-verses-the-long-road-to-german-publication/a-63276797
<blockquote>
When Salman Rushdie's fourth novel, "The Satanic Verses," appeared in its English-language first edition on September 26, 1988, the writer could not yet have imagined that this book would fundamentally change his life.

Now, nearly 34 years later, numerous festivals and literary associations have invited people to solidarity readings — not to mark this year's anniversary, but because of the assassination attempt against Rushdie decades after Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for the author's murder in February 1989. 

"The Satanic Verses" was first published in Britain, then in the United States, Italy and France. Muslims quickly protested against the novel and its author. South Africa, India and Pakistan stopped the import of the book; people ended up dying during demonstrations.

In London, where Rushdie was living at the time, there were also violent protests, arson attacks and threats against bookstores selling the novel.

Rushdie's story is about two Indian 
</blockquote>

---

# What does the Nord Stream pipeline gas leak mean for the environment?

https://www.dw.com/en/what-does-the-nord-stream-pipeline-gas-leak-mean-for-the-environment/a-63268348
<blockquote>
Major leaks on the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines releasing huge amounts of gas into the surrounding Baltic Sea and atmosphere were reported on Monday.

Images show the surface of the sea broiling as gas erupted from pipelines 80-110 meters (265-360 feet) below sea level. The long-term impact of the explosion is hard to quantify.

ʺAccording to our current knowledge, the leaks in the Nord Stream pipeline do not pose any serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea,ʺ a spokesperson for Germany's Environment Ministry told DW.

Experts say the long-term climate impact of the emissions will be substantial.

ʺThe most direct effect of these gas leaks on climate is the extra dollop of the powerful greenhouse gas methane they are adding to the atmosphere,ʺ Dave Reay, executive director of the University of Edinburgh’s Climate Change Institute, said in a statement.

ʺThat said, this is a wee bubble in the ocean compared to the huge amounts of so-called 'fugitive methane' that are 
</blockquote>

---

# Philippines: Killing of journalist sparks protests

https://www.dw.com/en/philippines-killing-of-journalist-sparks-protests/a-63331693
<blockquote>
Radio journalist Percival Mabasa, better known in the Philippines as Percy Lapid, was killed on the outskirts of the country's capital, Manila, late on Monday, police said on Tuesday. 

This triggered condemnation from media groups, activists, opposition politicians and foreign embassies, which described his "brazen" assassination as a blow to press freedom. Protesters organized a march of indignation and vigil on Tuesday evening in Manila. 

What happened in the killing of Percy Lapid?

Mabasa, 63, was killed by two gunmen riding a motorcycle at the gate of a residential compound in the Las Pinas area of Manila, near his home. He was driving to work at the DWBL radio station.

National police pledged to bring the perpetrators to justice and said a special task force would be set up to investigate. 

"We are not discounting the possibility that the shooting could be related to the victim's work in media," police chief Jaime Santos said in a statement. 

Mabasa's YouTube account showed 
</blockquote>

---

# Paris ditches big screens for Qatar World Cup

https://www.dw.com/en/paris-ditches-big-screens-for-qatar-world-cup/a-63332384
<blockquote>
The deputy mayor of Paris said there would be no fanzones with large TV screens in the city during the World Cup in Qatar. 

This comes amid widespread criticism of the treatment of migrant laborers building stadiums and other facilities in the country ahead of the competition. 

"For us, there was no question of setting up big screen areas for several reasons: the first is the conditions in which this World Cup has been organized, both in terms of the environmental and the social aspect," Deputy Mayor Pierre Rabadan told the AFP news agency. 

"The second is the fact that it takes place in December," he said. 

Common trend in France 

A string of French cities have made similar announcements of late. According to French newspaper Le Monde, Marseille, Bordeaux and Nacy are among the more recent to join the initiative, following on from Strasbourg, Lille and Reims.

Le Monde quoted Marseille's city council as saying the tournament had turned into "a human and environmental catastrophe 
</blockquote>

---

# India: Deadly avalanche hits in the Himalayas

https://www.dw.com/en/india-deadly-avalanche-hits-in-the-himalayas/a-63331556
<blockquote>
At least four mountaineers died following an avalanche in northern India on Tuesday, officials said. Dozens more were trapped following the incident at 16,000 feet (4,880 meters).

"We have confirmation of four deaths out of the 33 people trapped. Around eight of them have already been rescued and the rest are trapped in a crevasse," Ridhim Aggarwal from the State Disaster Response Force told French news agency AFP.

She added that it was difficult to keep in contact with rescue workers looking for survivors via helicopter because of heavy rainfall and snow, as well as the remote location.

Local and state first responders were at the scene, as well as the Indian Air Force. Later on Tuesday, they said that they had managed to rescue 12 people before having to pause operations overnight.

"Deeply anguished by the loss of precious lives due to landslide which has struck the mountaineering expedition carried out by the Nehru Mountaineering Institute in Uttarkashi," Defense Minister Rajnat
</blockquote>

---

# South Korea, US launch missiles after North Korea test

https://www.dw.com/en/south-korea-us-launch-missiles-after-north-korea-test/a-63335231
<blockquote>
South Korea and the United States fired four missiles into the Sea of Japan, Seoul said on Wednesday, a day after North Korea launched an intermediate-range missile over Japan for the first time in five years.

The two countries each fired a pair of US-made ATACMS short-range ballistic missiles, according to a statement.

The South Korean military said the launches were a retaliation to Pyongyang's farthest-ever missile test. South Korea's President Yoon Suk Yeol had previously vowed a "stern response" against the North.

Separately, South Korea also launched a Hyunmoo-2 missile that malfunctioned shortly after launch and crashed, causing panic in the city of Gangneung. There were no reports of injuries.

Play Video
0:00 min
North Korea fires ballistic missile over Japan
Military drills ramp up

The missile launches come just over a month after Seoul and Washington kicked off the biggest joint military exercise in the region in years.

Earlier on Tuesday, a South Korean F-15K fighter j
</blockquote>

---

# Methane gas: What's the big deal?

https://www.dw.com/en/methane-gas-whats-the-big-deal/a-59059353
<blockquote>
There's a reason why carbon dioxide has become the bogeyman of the climate crisis, considering just how much of it we've pumped into the atmosphere. We haven't stopped at CO2, however. Oh no, we've added methane into the toxic mix. While the gas, also known as CH4, has become almost synonymous with cattle flatulence, there's actually much more to it than that. And it's nothing like as funny as a fart. Or a burp, which are the bigger bodily offenders. 

Scientists estimate that although methane only accounts for 3% of emissions since 1750, it is linked to as much as 23% of historic warming. In other words, the stuff is potent. Really potent. As in, a single ton of methane causes roughly the equivalent warming of at least 28 tons of CO2 over the course of a century. And in the last two decades alone, we've managed to increase our output by 10%. 

Reducing the amount that seeps into the atmosphere could be a secret weapon in the climate fight. In fact it could, according to a UN Environme
</blockquote>

---

# Elon Musk deal to buy Twitter for $44 billion is back on

https://www.dw.com/en/elon-musk-deal-to-buy-twitter-for-44-billion-is-back-on/a-63332657
<blockquote>
Elon Musk is abandoning his legal battle with Twitter and reinstating his original offer to purchase the company for $44 billion (roughly €44 billion). 

Musk made the offer in a letter to Twitter, which was also filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before the close of trade on Tuesday. 

A spokesperson for Twitter said that the company had received Musk's letter and filed it with the SEC. 

"The intention of the company is to close the transaction at $54.20 per share," Musk's original offer, the spokesperson said. 

This follows months of reciprocal legal battles and public recriminations from both sides after their original apparent agreement to a deal back in April. 

It also comes just days before Musk was expected to be deposed before trial by Twitter's lawyers and just under two weeks before the court case was scheduled to start at the Delaware Chancery Court. 

According to the filing, Musk will complete the deal provided that he receives debt financing and
</blockquote>

---

# Elon Musk deal to buy Twitter for $44 billion is back on

https://www.dw.com/en/elon-musk-deal-to-buy-twitter-for-44-billion-is-back-on/a-63332657
<blockquote>
Trading in shares of Twitter was halted on Tuesday following reports that Elon Musk would proceed with his $44 billion (roughly €44 billion) deal to buy the company.

This follows months of reciprocal legal battles and public recriminations from both sides after their original apparent agreement to a deal back in April. 

Business publication Bloomberg News on Tuesday reported that Musk made the proposal in a letter to Twitter — with legal actions between the two parties looming. It cited people familiar with the case who were not identified. 

The report nevertheless caught investors' attention. Twitter shares jumped nearly 13% to $47.95 before trading was stopped, climbing towards Musk's original offer valuing each share at $54.20. 

Why did the deal appear to be falling apart? 

Musk appeared for months to be trying to back out of the deal, primarily accusing Twitter of downplaying the number of suspected "spam bot" accounts not belonging to distinct users and individuals on the pla
</blockquote>

---

# Depeche Mode to release new album and go on world tour

https://www.dw.com/en/depeche-mode-to-release-new-album-and-go-on-world-tour/a-63329463
<blockquote>
Like other musical greats such as Elton John or Bob Dylan, the members of British electro-pop band Depeche Mode are not ready to retire. And why should they be? The icons of the new wave scene still have a place in the hearts of fans around the world, decades after their rise to fame in the 1980s.

The band's remaining permanent members, guitarist and keyboardist Martin Gore and lead singer Dave Gahan, announced in Berlin on October 4 that they will release a new album "towards the end of March" and embark on a world tour.

The band had been recording their latest album in Santa Barbara and will soon return to New York to finish it.

Gahan said they had "a really good time together doing it" and had started writing a couple years ago, before the passing of founding keyboardist Andy Fletcher, aka "Fletch," who died at his home on May 26 after an aortic dissection, in which a tear occurs in the inner layer of the body's main artery.

 Band member remembered

"I think that it's important 
</blockquote>

---

# Depeche Mode to release new album and go on world tour

https://www.dw.com/en/depeche-mode-to-release-new-album-and-go-on-world-tour/a-63329463
<blockquote>
Like other musical greats such as Elton John or Bob Dylan, the members of British electro-pop band Depeche Mode are not ready to retire. And why should they be? The icons of the new wave scene still have a place in the hearts of fans around the world, decades after their rise to fame in the 1980s.

The band's remaining permanent members, guitarist and keyboardist Martin Gore and lead singer Dave Gahan, announced in Berlin on October 4 that they will release a new album "towards the end of March" and embark on a world tour.

The band had been recording their latest album in Santa Barbara and will soon return to New York to finish it.

Gahan said they had "a really good time together doing it" and had started writing a couple years ago, before the passing of founding keyboardist Andy Fletcher, aka "Fletch," who died at his home on May 26 after an aortic dissection, in which a tear occurs in the inner layer of the body's main artery.

 Band member remembered

"I think that it's important 
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: Lula's rhetoric also threatens Brazilian democracy

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-lulas-rhetoric-also-threatens-brazilian-democracy/a-63303021
<blockquote>
If presidential candidate Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil's left-wing PT Worker's Party is to believed, Brazil's upcoming election this Sunday will be a vote on the country's very independence. Losing the election, in his view, would bring an end to Brazilian democracy. This is a curious understanding of free elections. One that is not too dissimilar to that of right-wing populist President Jair Bolsonaro, who claims Brazil faces a rigged election — an accusation for which he has presented no evidence.

Several days ago, Brazilian news outlet Estadao wrote that Lula was insulting anyone who will not vote for him, treating them like "enemies." Lula, who governed the country between 2003 and 2011, has deliberately chosen this aggressive campaign rhetoric, opting for an approach similar to divisive President Bolsonaro. As such, classifying them as left-wing and right-wing populist figures, respectively, make sense — even though the Lula camp disagrees. Neither side wishes to be labele
</blockquote>

---

# Paris ditches big screens for Qatar World Cup

https://www.dw.com/en/paris-ditches-big-screens-for-qatar-world-cup/a-63332384
<blockquote>
The deputy mayor of Paris said there would be no fanzones with large TV screens in the city during the World Cup in Qatar. 

This comes amid widespread criticism of the treatment of migrant laborers building stadiums and other facilities in the country ahead of the competition. 

"For us, there was no question of setting up big screen areas for several reasons: the first is the conditions in which this World Cup has been organized, both in terms of the environmental and the social aspect," Deputy Mayor Pierre Rabadan told the AFP news agency. 

"The second is the fact that it takes place in December," he said. 

Common trend in France 

A string of French cities have made similar announcements of late. According to French newspaper Le Monde, Marseille, Bordeaux and Nacy are among the more recent to join the initiative, following on from Strasbourg, Lille and Reims.

Le Monde quoted Marseille's city council as saying the tournament had turned into "a human and environmental catastrophe 
</blockquote>

---

# Energy crisis: EU agrees funding plan to reduce dependency on Russia

https://www.dw.com/en/energy-crisis-eu-agrees-funding-plan-to-reduce-dependency-on-russia/a-63332117
<blockquote>
EU finance ministers on Tuesday agreed on the financing and distribution of a €20 billion ($19.8 billion) fund needed to reduce the bloc's dependency on Russian energy imports.

The consensus is the first step in turning the commission's proposal into an EU law as the bloc struggles with the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine.

It comes as part of a long-term response to soaring energy prices in the European Union as a consequence of Russia's war on Ukraine.

Where is the money coming from?

Ministers agreed that money to reduce EU dependency on Russian fossil fuels should be raised by taking about €15 billion from the EU's innovation fund.

About €5 billion would also come from selling carbon dioxide emission licenses to industries sooner than planned from the EU carbon market's "market stability reserve."

The money would be used to diversify energy supplies and replace fossil fuels. The delegates agreed to allocate funds in a way that recognizes some EU countries are more d
</blockquote>

---

# German ex-Chancellor Angela Merkel wins UN refugee prize

https://www.dw.com/en/german-ex-chancellor-angela-merkel-wins-un-refugee-prize/a-63329220
<blockquote>
The UN refugee agency on Tuesday said it was giving its highest award to former Chancellor Angela Merkel for her decision to welcome more than a million refugees, mostly from Syria, into Germany.

Merkel — whose award includes a $150,000 (€151,700) prize — pursued the policy despite some criticism both at home and abroad.

What did UN say?

The prize selection committee underlined that Merkel had been the driving force behind Germany's efforts to receive and integrate refugees.

"By helping more than a million refugees to survive and rebuild, Angela Merkel displayed great moral and political courage," UN refugee agency chief Filippo Grandi said in a statement.

"It was true leadership, appealing to our common humanity, standing firm against those who preached fear and discrimination," he said.

"She showed what can be achieved when politicians take the right course of action and work to find solutions to the world's challenges rather than simply shift responsibility to others."

Play V
</blockquote>

---

# Iranian sports world criticizes regime​​​​​​​

https://www.dw.com/en/iranian-sports-world-criticizes-regime/a-63330579
<blockquote>
Hossein Mahini, another Iranian international, was arrested and his home searched after he offered support for the protests that followed the death of Mahsa Amini. Amini died while in custody after being detained by Iran's "morality police"who enforce rules on hijabs and other conservative Islamic modes of dress and behavior.

Mahini is now part of a broad front of prominent Iranians athletes who are condemning the violence and positioning themselves against the regime.

Iranian football icon and former Bayern Munich player, Ali Karimi, publicized Mahini's arrest via his closely-followed social media accounts. He had previously condemned the unexplained circumstances surrounding Amini's death. Not even holy water could "wash away this disgrace," Karimi wrote.

Protesters have reportedly been chanting Karimi's and Mahini's names in demonstrations around the country. Last week, Karimi's house in Tehran was seized for several days.

Fans of Karimi's former club, Bayern Munich, offered sup
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's largest power producer to end coal use by 2030

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-largest-power-producer-to-end-coal-use-by-2030/a-63329444
<blockquote>
German energy giant RWE said on Tuesday that it had reached an agreement with the German government to phase out coal by 2030, bringing forward the target by eight years.

The move speeds up the closure of a number of large fossil fuel-fired power plants.

However — with European countries in the midst of a power crisis — the producer said it would have to keep its Neurath D and E power plant units on the grid "to strengthen security of supply." Neurath is a lignite-fired power station situated near the western town of Grevenbroich.

In July, Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government announced the temporary reactivation of 27 mothballed oil and coal-fired power plants to help fill the energy shortfall until March 2024.

What RWE said about the coal phaseout

RWE CEO Markus Krebber pointed out the need to maintain the supply while keeping in line with targets to phaseout polluting fuel sources.

"As more coal is needed in the short term, thereby leading to rising carbon dioxide emissions, we 
</blockquote>

---

# New film shows why Marilyn Monroe was so much more than a sex symbol

https://www.dw.com/en/new-film-shows-why-marilyn-monroe-was-so-much-more-than-a-sex-symbol/a-57721834
<blockquote>
Self-determined. Body-positive. Woke.

These adjectives weren't common in 1950s Hollywood during the peak of actor Marilyn Monroe's career.

More often labeled "blonde bombshell" or "sex symbol," she actually bucked some of the social trends of the mid-20th century that still strike a chord today  — and that is 60 years after she succumbed to a barbiturate overdose on August 5, 1962. 

On September 28, "Blonde,"  Netflix's Monroe biopic, is released on the streaming platform in Europe, Australia and beyond.

Having premiered at the 2022 Venice Film Festival and been released in cinemas in the US on September 16 and in the UK on September 23, many critics have already celebrated the film, and especially the performance of the lead, Cuban-born Ana de Armas.

Other reviewers, including the Chicago Sun-Times, called it "overlong" and "overwrought" and lamented that the film "depicts Marilyn Monroe’s life as a joyless nightmare."

But Ana de Armas, the latest actor to embody the troubled Ho
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: Germany's Angela Merkel, an ex-chancellor from a different era

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-germanys-angela-merkel-an-ex-chancellor-from-a-different-era/a-63308583
<blockquote>
Last week, former German Chancellor Angela Merkel attended two public events. She met the current leader of the Christian Democrats, Friedrich Merz — a man she deeply dislikes — at the Helmut Kohl Foundation. Also that week, Merkel held a speech in the northern German city of Goslar in honor of the town's 1,100-year-anniversay. These events were predictably unspectacular. And, unsurprisingly, Merkel said nothing truly ground-breaking.

This is, however, surprising, given that many once regarded Merkel as the savior of the free West, especially when US President Donald Trump controlled the White House.

Merkel recently announced she will publish her memoirs in autumn 2024.

Apart from this, the woman who governed Germany for 16 years has largely kept out of the public eye.

Hardly anyone is asking Merkel for advice

This is clearly her choice. Merkel is sticking to her pledge, keeping to herself, as she has no need for the limelight. Yet so much has happened in the 12 months since the l
</blockquote>

---

# Paris ditches big screens for Qatar World Cup

https://www.dw.com/en/paris-ditches-big-screens-for-qatar-world-cup/a-63332384
<blockquote>
The deputy mayor of Paris said there would be no fanzones with large TV screens in the city during the World Cup in Qatar. 

This comes amid widespread criticism of the treatment of migrant laborers building stadiums and other facilities in the country ahead of the competition. 

"For us, there was no question of setting up big screen areas for several reasons: the first is the conditions in which this World Cup has been organized, both in terms of the environmental and the social aspect," Deputy Mayor Pierre Rabadan told the AFP news agency. 

"The second is the fact that it takes place in December," he said. 

Common trend in France 

A string of French cities have made similar announcements of late. According to French newspaper Le Monde, Marseille, Bordeaux and Nacy are among the more recent to join the initiative, following on from Strasbourg, Lille and Reims.

Le Monde quoted Marseille's city council as saying the tournament had turned into "a human and environmental catastrophe 
</blockquote>

---

# New film shows why Marilyn Monroe was so much more than a sex symbol

https://www.dw.com/en/new-film-shows-why-marilyn-monroe-was-so-much-more-than-a-sex-symbol/a-57721834
<blockquote>
Self-determined. Body-positive. Woke.

These adjectives weren't common in 1950s Hollywood during the peak of actor Marilyn Monroe's career.

More often labeled "blonde bombshell" or "sex symbol," she actually bucked some of the social trends of the mid-20th century that still strike a chord today  — and that is 60 years after she succumbed to a barbiturate overdose on August 5, 1962. 

On September 28, "Blonde,"  Netflix's Monroe biopic, is released on the streaming platform in Europe, Australia and beyond.

Having premiered at the 2022 Venice Film Festival and been released in cinemas in the US on September 16 and in the UK on September 23, many critics have already celebrated the film, and especially the performance of the lead, Cuban-born Ana de Armas.

Other reviewers, including the Chicago Sun-Times, called it "overlong" and "overwrought" and lamented that the film "depicts Marilyn Monroe’s life as a joyless nightmare."

But Ana de Armas, the latest actor to embody the troubled Ho
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# European farmers struggle to contain deadly bird flu

https://www.dw.com/en/european-farmers-struggle-to-contain-deadly-bird-flu/a-63302531
<blockquote>
Pictures of dead wild birds' carcasses, people in white suits carrying dead poultry out of barns – these are not new to anyone involved in poultry farming or bird conservation all across Europe.

Poultry farmer Alrik Visscher from Dalfsen in the eastern part of the Netherlands is one of the farmers who has lost all his birds because of the flu. Visscher runs a family farm together with his parents, where four of his barns are now empty. Normally, up to 115,000 chickens would be walking around here, picking grain and laying eggs. Now, the Visschers are cleaning and disinfecting everything.

It was August 1 when Visscher discovered the first signs of the bird flu in some of his birds: They were quieter, blinking, some already dead. Just a day later, all the other chickens were culled as a protective measure.

"It's a mess what you feel: You feel sad, but you also feel: We have to do it like this," Visscher remembers. "Because you have so many chickens, you don't think you have bond with 
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: EU eyes up Germany's 'double whammy'

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-eu-eyes-up-germanys-double-whammy/a-63333411
<blockquote>
Joint European debt, to combat an unprecedented crisis? That was the decision the EU took during the COVID-19 crisis in 2020. Back then, Germany, in the form of Chancellor Angela Merkel, made a sharp U-turn on fiscal policy. Germany had always categorically rejected joint European debt. But the overwhelming scale of the crisis, which plunged the whole of Europe into a dramatic downturn, forced a rethink.

The EU's COVID-19 recovery fund is set to distribute a total of €750 billion ($750 billion) in grants and cheap loans. It is far from clear, though, whether this will achieve the desired effect, or whether the debt will ever be repaid, as Merkel and Co. promised.

Joint debt, guaranteed primarily by the most economically powerful member states, was to be an absolute exception.

Free pass from Berlin

Until today, that is. At the EU finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, more and more member states, as well as two EU commissioners, called for "European solidarity," i.e., more debt a
</blockquote>

---

# What does the Nord Stream pipeline gas leak mean for the environment?

https://www.dw.com/en/what-does-the-nord-stream-pipeline-gas-leak-mean-for-the-environment/a-63268348
<blockquote>
Major leaks on the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines releasing huge amounts of gas into the surrounding Baltic Sea and atmosphere were reported on Monday.

Images show the surface of the sea broiling as gas erupted from pipelines 80-110 meters (265-360 feet) below sea level. The long-term impact of the explosion is hard to quantify.

ʺAccording to our current knowledge, the leaks in the Nord Stream pipeline do not pose any serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea,ʺ a spokesperson for Germany's Environment Ministry told DW.

Experts say the long-term climate impact of the emissions will be substantial.

ʺThe most direct effect of these gas leaks on climate is the extra dollop of the powerful greenhouse gas methane they are adding to the atmosphere,ʺ Dave Reay, executive director of the University of Edinburgh’s Climate Change Institute, said in a statement.

ʺThat said, this is a wee bubble in the ocean compared to the huge amounts of so-called 'fugitive methane' that are 
</blockquote>

---

# Nobel Prize: Alain Aspect, John Clauser and Anton Zeilinger win 2022 physics award

https://www.dw.com/en/nobel-prize-alain-aspect-john-clauser-and-anton-zeilinger-win-2022-physics-award/a-63284040
<blockquote>
Alain Aspect, John F. Clauser and Anton Zeilinger have won this year's Nobel Prize in physics for their work in quantum mechanics, Sweden's Karolinska Institute announced on Tuesday.

The institute said the scientists had been recognized for "experiments with entangled photons, establishing the violation of Bell inequalities and pioneering quantum information science."

One hour after he received the phone call, prize co-winner Zeilinger was still in shock.

"It's a positive shock, I was surprised to get the call," he said in an interview with the Nobel Prize committee.

"This prize is exciting for the field of quantum mechanics. On the fundamentals, many of the issues about realities and space time are still not answered. I expect some interesting work here in the coming years," he said.

Work on quantum mechanics a new era for technology

The field of quantum mechanics stems from Niels Bohr and Max Planck, the two founding fathers of Quantum Theory.

Using groundbreaking experiments,
</blockquote>

---

# Iran releases singer arrested over protest anthem

https://www.dw.com/en/iran-releases-singer-arrested-over-protest-anthem/a-63332298
<blockquote>
A popular Iranian singer was released from detention on bail on Tuesday. Shervin Hajipour was jailed after his song in support of protests over the death of Mahsa Amini went viral.

Hajipour's emotional performance of his song "Baraye," which featured messages posted on Twitter about the reasons behind the protests, had millions of views within days. The song has also been featured in many videos about the demonstrations.

It has since been removed from his Instagram account.

Play Video
0:00 min
Iran: Protests spread to universities and schools
Why are Iranians protesting?

Massive unrest has swept Iran following the death of Amini, 22, on September 16. The Iranian Kurdish woman was visiting the capital Tehran on vacation with her family. She was detained by the capital's religious police, who alleged she was not properly wearing her hijab.

Amini then died under mysterious circumstances after being brought to a detention center for women who are found in violation of religious statut
</blockquote>

---

# Iran releases singer arrested over protest anthem

https://www.dw.com/en/iran-releases-singer-arrested-over-protest-anthem/a-63332298
<blockquote>
A popular Iranian singer was released from detention on bail on Tuesday. Shervin Hajipour was jailed after his song in support of protests over the death of Mahsa Amini went viral.

Hajipour's emotional performance of his song "Baraye," which featured messages posted on Twitter about the reasons behind the protests, had millions of views within days. The song has also been featured in many videos about the demonstrations.

It has since been removed from his Instagram account.

Play Video
Iran: Protests spread to universities and schools
Why are Iranians protesting?

Massive unrest has swept Iran following the death of Amini, 22, on September 16. The Iranian Kurdish woman was visiting the capital Tehran on vacation with her family. She was detained by the capital's religious police, who alleged she was not properly wearing her hijab.

Amini then died under mysterious circumstances after being brought to a detention center for women who are found in violation of religious statutes in the
</blockquote>

---

# Methane gas: What's the big deal?

https://www.dw.com/en/methane-gas-whats-the-big-deal/a-59059353
<blockquote>
There's a reason why carbon dioxide has become the bogeyman of the climate crisis, considering just how much of it we've pumped into the atmosphere. We haven't stopped at CO2, however. Oh no, we've added methane into the toxic mix. While the gas, also known as CH4, has become almost synonymous with cattle flatulence, there's actually much more to it than that. And it's nothing like as funny as a fart. Or a burp, which are the bigger bodily offenders. 

Scientists estimate that although methane only accounts for 3% of emissions since 1750, it is linked to as much as 23% of historic warming. In other words, the stuff is potent. Really potent. As in, a single ton of methane causes roughly the equivalent warming of at least 28 tons of CO2 over the course of a century. And in the last two decades alone, we've managed to increase our output by 10%. 

Reducing the amount that seeps into the atmosphere could be a secret weapon in the climate fight. In fact it could, according to a UN Environme
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# What does the Nord Stream pipeline gas leak mean for the environment?

https://www.dw.com/en/what-does-the-nord-stream-pipeline-gas-leak-mean-for-the-environment/a-63268348
<blockquote>
Major leaks on the Nord Stream 1 and 2 pipelines releasing huge amounts of gas into the surrounding Baltic Sea and atmosphere were reported on Monday.

Images show the surface of the sea broiling as gas erupted from pipelines 80-110 meters (265-360 feet) below sea level. The long-term impact of the explosion is hard to quantify.

ʺAccording to our current knowledge, the leaks in the Nord Stream pipeline do not pose any serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea,ʺ a spokesperson for Germany's Environment Ministry told DW.

Experts say the long-term climate impact of the emissions will be substantial.

ʺThe most direct effect of these gas leaks on climate is the extra dollop of the powerful greenhouse gas methane they are adding to the atmosphere,ʺ Dave Reay, executive director of the University of Edinburgh’s Climate Change Institute, said in a statement.

ʺThat said, this is a wee bubble in the ocean compared to the huge amounts of so-called 'fugitive methane' that are 
</blockquote>

---

# Somalia: Senior regional officials among dead in al-Shabab car bombings

https://www.dw.com/en/somalia-senior-regional-officials-among-dead-in-al-shabab-car-bombings/a-63323400
<blockquote>
Somali police said at least nine people, including senior regional government officials, were killed as state news reported casualties twice that in twin car bombings claimed by al-Shabab.

A third car bomb was detonated by security forces without causing injury. The attacks come as the government increases its efforts to take down the violent jihadi group.

Also on Monday, the US military's Africa Command announced it had carried out a strike targeting al-Shabab Saturday in coordination with the Somali federal government.

In a statement, US Africa Command said, "The command's initial assessment is that the strike killed an Al-Shabab leader and that no civilians were injured or killed."

What do we know about the blasts?

The twin explosions came as two cars packed with explosives were detonated outside a government office in Beledweyne just minutes apart around 10:00 a.m. local time (0700 GMT/UTC).

Beledweyne is a strategic city 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of Mogadishu. The al-
</blockquote>

---

# New film shows why Marilyn Monroe was so much more than a sex symbol

https://www.dw.com/en/new-film-shows-why-marilyn-monroe-was-so-much-more-than-a-sex-symbol/a-57721834
<blockquote>
Self-determined. Body-positive. Woke.

These adjectives weren't common in 1950s Hollywood during the peak of actor Marilyn Monroe's career.

More often labeled "blonde bombshell" or "sex symbol," she actually bucked some of the social trends of the mid-20th century that still strike a chord today  — and that is 60 years after she succumbed to a barbiturate overdose on August 5, 1962. 

On September 28, "Blonde,"  Netflix's Monroe biopic, is released on the streaming platform in Europe, Australia and beyond.

Having premiered at the 2022 Venice Film Festival and been released in cinemas in the US on September 16 and in the UK on September 23, many critics have already celebrated the film, and especially the performance of the lead, Cuban-born Ana de Armas.

Other reviewers, including the Chicago Sun-Times, called it "overlong" and "overwrought" and lamented that the film "depicts Marilyn Monroe’s life as a joyless nightmare."

But Ana de Armas, the latest actor to embody the troubled Ho
</blockquote>

---

# Climate change: Congo hosts pre-COP27 talks amid appeals to wealthy nations

https://www.dw.com/en/climate-change-congo-hosts-pre-cop27-talks-amid-appeals-to-wealthy-nations/a-63323436
<blockquote>
Host nation DR Congo on Monday urged rich countries in particular to increase funding to combat climate change during the final meeting ahead of the COP27 climate summit in Egypt next month. 

Congolese Environment Minister Eve Bazaiba called on countries to respect past financial pledges and also to endorse proposals to compensate less developed economies for climate-inflicted damage. 

"Unless a global effort is made ... no one will escape," Bazaiba said in Kinshasa. "We all breathe the same air."

Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry stressed the need for more money, specifically mentioning a promise originally dating back to COP15 in Copenhagen in 2009, to provide developing countries with $100 billion (€101.7 billion) per year for projects to combat climate change. 

Bazaiba argued that such investments should no longer be classified as development aid by wealthier nations but rather as an investment in humanity's future. 

Deputy UN Secretary-General Amina Mohammed warned that
</blockquote>

---

# Depeche Mode to release new album and go on world tour

https://www.dw.com/en/depeche-mode-to-release-new-album-and-go-on-world-tour/a-63329463
<blockquote>
Like other musical greats such as Elton John or Bob Dylan, the members of British electro-pop band Depeche Mode are not ready to retire. And why should they be? The icons of the new wave scene still have a place in the hearts of fans around the world, decades after their rise to fame in the 1980s.

The band's remaining permanent members, guitarist and keyboardist Martin Gore and lead singer Dave Gahan, announced in Berlin on October 4 that they will release a new album "towards the end of March" and embark on a world tour.

The band had been recording their latest album in Santa Barbara and will soon return to New York to finish it.

Gahan said they had "a really good time together doing it" and had started writing a couple years ago, before the passing of founding keyboardist Andy Fletcher, aka "Fletch," who died at his home on May 26 after an aortic dissection, in which a tear occurs in the inner layer of the body's main artery.

 Band member remembered

"I think that it's important 
</blockquote>

---

# Energy crisis: EU agrees funding plan to reduce dependency on Russia

https://www.dw.com/en/energy-crisis-eu-agrees-funding-plan-to-reduce-dependency-on-russia/a-63332117
<blockquote>
EU finance ministers on Tuesday agreed on the financing and distribution of a €20 billion ($19.8 billion) fund needed to reduce the bloc's dependency on Russian energy imports.

The consensus is the first step in turning the commission's proposal into an EU law as the bloc struggles with the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine.

It comes as part of a long-term response to soaring energy prices in the European Union as a consequence of Russia's war on Ukraine.

Where is the money coming from?

Ministers agreed that money to reduce EU dependency on Russian fossil fuels should be raised by taking about €15 billion from the EU's innovation fund.

About €5 billion would also come from selling carbon dioxide emission licenses to industries sooner than planned from the EU carbon market's "market stability reserve."

The money would be used to diversify energy supplies and replace fossil fuels. The delegates agreed to allocate funds in a way that recognizes some EU countries are more d
</blockquote>

---

# European farmers struggle to contain deadly bird flu

https://www.dw.com/en/european-farmers-struggle-to-contain-deadly-bird-flu/a-63302531
<blockquote>
Pictures of dead wild birds' carcasses, people in white suits carrying dead poultry out of barns – these are not new to anyone involved in poultry farming or bird conservation all across Europe.

Poultry farmer Alrik Visscher from Dalfsen in the eastern part of the Netherlands is one of the farmers who has lost all his birds because of the flu. Visscher runs a family farm together with his parents, where four of his barns are now empty. Normally, up to 115,000 chickens would be walking around here, picking grain and laying eggs. Now, the Visschers are cleaning and disinfecting everything.

It was August 1 when Visscher discovered the first signs of the bird flu in some of his birds: They were quieter, blinking, some already dead. Just a day later, all the other chickens were culled as a protective measure.

"It's a mess what you feel: You feel sad, but you also feel: We have to do it like this," Visscher remembers. "Because you have so many chickens, you don't think you have bond with 
</blockquote>

---

# 'The Satanic Verses': The long road to German publication

https://www.dw.com/en/the-satanic-verses-the-long-road-to-german-publication/a-63276797
<blockquote>
When Salman Rushdie's fourth novel, "The Satanic Verses," appeared in its English-language first edition on September 26, 1988, the writer could not yet have imagined that this book would fundamentally change his life.

Now, nearly 34 years later, numerous festivals and literary associations have invited people to solidarity readings — not to mark this year's anniversary, but because of the assassination attempt against Rushdie decades after Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for the author's murder in February 1989. 

"The Satanic Verses" was first published in Britain, then in the United States, Italy and France. Muslims quickly protested against the novel and its author. South Africa, India and Pakistan stopped the import of the book; people ended up dying during demonstrations.

In London, where Rushdie was living at the time, there were also violent protests, arson attacks and threats against bookstores selling the novel.

Rushdie's story is about two Indian 
</blockquote>

---

# England's WSL: Is it living up to the hype?

https://www.dw.com/en/englands-wsl-is-it-living-up-to-the-hype/a-63286432
<blockquote>
For Leah Williamson, beating your biggest rivals in front of tens of thousands is becoming a habit. Two months after lifting Euro 2022 in front of 87,192 people at Wembley, she was reflecting on the impressive crowd of 47,367 that had seen Arsenal ease to a 4-0 win over Spurs 15 kilometers across London at The Emirates Stadium at the end of September.

"I think it [a rise in attendances] was on its way before COVID hit and set us back a little bit again. But now these are the people that are interested in watching, those people are fans of the game and they will come to watch us again and again and again, I hope," she told DW, before striking a slightly more cautious note.

"It's just got to be at the right time and that's when the sustainability of the game comes in. I question it because it has to be fixture-friendly with the men's team and there's a lot of things [to fall in to place for] a day like today."




Those things are increasingly starting to happen in England. That weeken
</blockquote>

---

# How do Bundesliga clubs travel to away games?

https://www.dw.com/en/how-do-bundesliga-clubs-travel-to-away-games/a-63215695
<blockquote>
Paris Saint-Germain head coach Christophe Galtier and star forward Kylian Mbappe recently laughed at the suggestion that the French champions PSG take a two-hour train journey rather than a jet to Nantes for an away game.

While the answer cast the French striker and coach in a light that does little to dispel the disconnected nature of those at the top level of football, it also raised the question of how top-level football teams are traveling to away games.

The Bundesliga is a league that has plenty of innovative climate-friendly ideas, including carbon-zero stadiums, solar-panels and even an on-site well so as to reduce water consumption.

Though many fans also do their best to protect the environment, their footprint is still considerable. According to a 2020 study conducted by the climate advisory agency C02OL on behalf of German public broadcaster Deutschlandfunk, football fans produce around 7,800 tons of harmful emissions per matchday. Much has been made of the emissions gener
</blockquote>

---

# Thailand: Will Prayuth Chan-ocha ruling unleash a new political crisis?

https://www.dw.com/en/thailand-will-prayuth-chan-ocha-ruling-unleash-a-new-political-crisis/a-63296828
<blockquote>
Thailand's current constitution stipulates a term limit of eight years for a prime minister. However, there are different interpretations, depending on the political camp, as to when Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha's term should be counted as having started.

Opposition parties said the ex-army chief has overstayed his tenure, which they contend started when he seized power in a military coup in 2014.

However, since the current constitution only became effective in April 2017, Prayuth's supporters argued that the term limits cannot be applied retrospectively, and that his term officially began in 2017 when the new constitution was put in place.

On Friday, Thailand's constitutional court agreed with this interpretation, ruling Premier Prayuth's tenure began in 2017, leading the way for him to serve as PM for two more years if he is reelected after the completion of his current term in 2023.

The verdict follows the temporary suspension of Prayuth on August 24, when the court decided 
</blockquote>

---

# Elon Musk deal to buy Twitter for $44 billion is back on

https://www.dw.com/en/elon-musk-deal-to-buy-twitter-for-44-billion-is-back-on/a-63332657
<blockquote>
Elon Musk is abandoning his legal battle with Twitter and reinstating his original offer to purchase the company for $44 billion (roughly €44 billion). 

Musk made the offer in a letter to Twitter, which was also filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) before the close of trade on Tuesday. 

A spokesperson for Twitter said that the company had received Musk's letter and filed it with the SEC. 

"The intention of the company is to close the transaction at $54.20 per share," Musk's original offer, the spokesperson said. 

This follows months of reciprocal legal battles and public recriminations from both sides after their original apparent agreement to a deal back in April. 

It also comes just days before Musk was expected to be deposed before trial by Twitter's lawyers and just under two weeks before the court case was scheduled to start at the Delaware Chancery Court. 

According to the filing, Musk will complete the deal provided that he receives debt financing and
</blockquote>

---

# Champions League: Makoto Hasebe proves Frankfurt's hero

https://www.dw.com/en/champions-league-makoto-hasebe-proves-frankfurts-hero/a-63332874
<blockquote>
Even the most passionate Eintracht Frankfurt fan could not have foreseen Makoto Hasebe keeping Harry Kane quiet all night, but fairytales continue to be written in Frankfurt. 

Despite the 38-year-old being a Bundesliga champion with over 350 Bundesliga appearances, Hasebe was making just his ninth Champions League appearance. Nevertheless, this was one of the great defensive performances from a player defying his age as well as the attackers in front of him.

"Makoto is an example to us all," Kevin Trapp told Amazon after the 0-0 draw.

"Today, against Harry Kane, he's probably physically not as strong but he had him under control," Trapp continued.

"You know you can give him the ball and he gives the team the confidence it needs. He's a hugely important player for us who nearly retired twice, but thankfully didn't."

It is quite remarkable that Frankfurt can confidently rely on a 38-year-old to marshal one of the most successful goalscorers in Premier League history. And yet in many
</blockquote>

---

# Bangladesh: Blackouts leave 130 million people without power

https://www.dw.com/en/bangladesh-blackouts-leave-130-million-people-without-power/a-63331378
<blockquote>
Large swaths of Bangladesh were left without electricity on Tuesday, the government's power utility company said.

The partial grid failure affected at least 130 million people of the country's about 168 million.

What do we know about the grid failure?

Bangladesh's power grid malfunctioned at about 2 p.m. local time (0800 GMT) on Tuesday.

This led to blackouts across 75-80% of Bangladesh, Power Development Board official Shameen Hasan told Reuters.

Hasan said utilities were currently producing around 4,500 megawatts of power, while nationwide demand was at 14,200 megawatts.

Bangladesh's peak power demand on Tuesday was 3% higher than forecast, according to government data.

The cause of the blackouts remained unclear, the Power Development Board said.

Junior Technology Minister Zunaid Palak said power would be restored by late evening in Dhaka, a city of more than 22 million inhabitants.

Bangladesh facing frequent power cuts

Bangladesh last witnessed a major unscheduled blackou
</blockquote>

---

# New film shows why Marilyn Monroe was so much more than a sex symbol

https://www.dw.com/en/new-film-shows-why-marilyn-monroe-was-so-much-more-than-a-sex-symbol/a-57721834
<blockquote>
Self-determined. Body-positive. Woke.

These adjectives weren't common in 1950s Hollywood during the peak of actor Marilyn Monroe's career.

More often labeled "blonde bombshell" or "sex symbol," she actually bucked some of the social trends of the mid-20th century that still strike a chord today  — and that is 60 years after she succumbed to a barbiturate overdose on August 5, 1962. 

On September 28, "Blonde,"  Netflix's Monroe biopic, is released on the streaming platform in Europe, Australia and beyond.

Having premiered at the 2022 Venice Film Festival and been released in cinemas in the US on September 16 and in the UK on September 23, many critics have already celebrated the film, and especially the performance of the lead, Cuban-born Ana de Armas.

Other reviewers, including the Chicago Sun-Times, called it "overlong" and "overwrought" and lamented that the film "depicts Marilyn Monroe’s life as a joyless nightmare."

But Ana de Armas, the latest actor to embody the troubled Ho
</blockquote>

---

# Methane gas: What's the big deal?

https://www.dw.com/en/methane-gas-whats-the-big-deal/a-59059353
<blockquote>
There's a reason why carbon dioxide has become the bogeyman of the climate crisis, considering just how much of it we've pumped into the atmosphere. We haven't stopped at CO2, however. Oh no, we've added methane into the toxic mix. While the gas, also known as CH4, has become almost synonymous with cattle flatulence, there's actually much more to it than that. And it's nothing like as funny as a fart. Or a burp, which are the bigger bodily offenders. 

Scientists estimate that although methane only accounts for 3% of emissions since 1750, it is linked to as much as 23% of historic warming. In other words, the stuff is potent. Really potent. As in, a single ton of methane causes roughly the equivalent warming of at least 28 tons of CO2 over the course of a century. And in the last two decades alone, we've managed to increase our output by 10%. 

Reducing the amount that seeps into the atmosphere could be a secret weapon in the climate fight. In fact it could, according to a UN Environme
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: EU eyes up Germany's 'double whammy'

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-eu-eyes-up-germanys-double-whammy/a-63333411
<blockquote>
Joint European debt, to combat an unprecedented crisis? That was the decision the EU took during the COVID-19 crisis in 2020. Back then, Germany, in the form of Chancellor Angela Merkel, made a sharp U-turn on fiscal policy. Germany had always categorically rejected joint European debt. But the overwhelming scale of the crisis, which plunged the whole of Europe into a dramatic downturn, forced a rethink.

The EU's COVID-19 recovery fund is set to distribute a total of €750 billion ($750 billion) in grants and cheap loans. It is far from clear, though, whether this will achieve the desired effect, or whether the debt will ever be repaid, as Merkel and Co. promised.

Joint debt, guaranteed primarily by the most economically powerful member states, was to be an absolute exception.

Free pass from Berlin

Until today, that is. At the EU finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, more and more member states, as well as two EU commissioners, called for "European solidarity," i.e., more debt a
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: EU eyes up Germany's 'double whammy'

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-eu-eyes-up-germanys-double-whammy/a-63333411
<blockquote>
Joint European debt, to combat an unprecedented crisis? That was the decision the EU took during the COVID-19 crisis in 2020. Back then, Germany, in the form of Chancellor Angela Merkel, made a sharp U-turn on fiscal policy. Germany had always categorically rejected joint European debt. But the overwhelming scale of the crisis, which plunged the whole of Europe into a dramatic downturn, forced a rethink.

The EU's COVID-19 recovery fund is set to distribute a total of €750 billion ($750 billion) in grants and cheap loans. It is far from clear, though, whether this will achieve the desired effect, or whether the debt will ever be repaid, as Merkel and Co. promised.

Joint debt, guaranteed primarily by the most economically powerful member states, was to be an absolute exception.

Free pass from Berlin

Until today, that is. At the EU finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, more and more member states, as well as two EU commissioners, called for "European solidarity," i.e., more debt a
</blockquote>

---

# New film shows why Marilyn Monroe was so much more than a sex symbol

https://www.dw.com/en/new-film-shows-why-marilyn-monroe-was-so-much-more-than-a-sex-symbol/a-57721834
<blockquote>
Self-determined. Body-positive. Woke.

These adjectives weren't common in 1950s Hollywood during the peak of actor Marilyn Monroe's career.

More often labeled "blonde bombshell" or "sex symbol," she actually bucked some of the social trends of the mid-20th century that still strike a chord today  — and that is 60 years after she succumbed to a barbiturate overdose on August 5, 1962. 

On September 28, "Blonde,"  Netflix's Monroe biopic, is released on the streaming platform in Europe, Australia and beyond.

Having premiered at the 2022 Venice Film Festival and been released in cinemas in the US on September 16 and in the UK on September 23, many critics have already celebrated the film, and especially the performance of the lead, Cuban-born Ana de Armas.

Other reviewers, including the Chicago Sun-Times, called it "overlong" and "overwrought" and lamented that the film "depicts Marilyn Monroe’s life as a joyless nightmare."

But Ana de Armas, the latest actor to embody the troubled Ho
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# EU approves German state funding of BASF renewable hydrogen bid

https://www.dw.com/en/eu-approves-german-state-funding-of-basf-renewable-hydrogen-bid/a-63322963
<blockquote>
The European Commission's antitrust chief Margrethe Vestager on Monday signed off on the German government's plan to subsidize chemical giant BASF's efforts to generate green hydrogen at its headquarters in Ludwigshafen starting in 2025. 

"This €134 million ($131.5 million) measure enables Germany to help BASF step up renewable hydrogen production capacities, thereby contributing to the greening of the chemical value chain and of the transport sector," Vestager said in a statement.

"The measure approved today will also help Germany replace fossil-based hydrogen in a hard-to-decarbonize industry, and reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels, in line with the REPowerEU Plan," Vestager said, referring to the EU's new energy program launched in the aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine seeking to save energy, diversify and reduce dependence of Russian fossil fuels and accelerate some areas of green research.

The BASF project aims to provide the company some of the hydrogen it 
</blockquote>

---

# Nobel Prize: Alain Aspect, John Clauser and Anton Zeilinger win 2022 physics award

https://www.dw.com/en/nobel-prize-alain-aspect-john-clauser-and-anton-zeilinger-win-2022-physics-award/a-63284040
<blockquote>
Alain Aspect, John F. Clauser and Anton Zeilinger have won this year's Nobel Prize in physics for their work in quantum mechanics, Sweden's Karolinska Institute announced on Tuesday.

The institute said the scientists had been recognized for "experiments with entangled photons, establishing the violation of Bell inequalities and pioneering quantum information science."

One hour after he received the phone call, prize co-winner Zeilinger was still in shock.

"It's a positive shock, I was surprised to get the call," he said in an interview with the Nobel Prize committee.

"This prize is exciting for the field of quantum mechanics. On the fundamentals, many of the issues about realities and space time are still not answered. I expect some interesting work here in the coming years," he said.

Work on quantum mechanics a new era for technology

The field of quantum mechanics stems from Niels Bohr and Max Planck, the two founding fathers of Quantum Theory.

Using groundbreaking experiments,
</blockquote>

---

# Paris ditches big screens for Qatar World Cup

https://www.dw.com/en/paris-ditches-big-screens-for-qatar-world-cup/a-63332384
<blockquote>
The deputy mayor of Paris said there would be no fanzones with large TV screens in the city during the World Cup in Qatar. 

This comes amid widespread criticism of the treatment of migrant laborers building stadiums and other facilities in the country ahead of the competition. 

"For us, there was no question of setting up big screen areas for several reasons: the first is the conditions in which this World Cup has been organized, both in terms of the environmental and the social aspect," Deputy Mayor Pierre Rabadan told the AFP news agency. 

"The second is the fact that it takes place in December," he said. 

Common trend in France 

A string of French cities have made similar announcements of late. According to French newspaper Le Monde, Marseille, Bordeaux and Nacy are among the more recent to join the initiative, following on from Strasbourg, Lille and Reims.

Le Monde quoted Marseille's city council as saying the tournament had turned into "a human and environmental catastrophe 
</blockquote>

---

# Colombia, ELN guerrillas agree to restart peace talks

https://www.dw.com/en/colombia-eln-guerrillas-agree-to-restart-peace-talks/a-63337030
<blockquote>
The Colombian government and leftist guerrilla group the National Liberation Army (ELN) have announced plans to restart peace talks suspended since 2019.

The two delegations met in the Venezuelan capital, Caracas, where ELN commander Antonio Garcia said the negotiations would recommence "after the first week of November." A place for the talks has not yet been announced.

Venezuela, Cuba and Norway are to serve as guarantors for the talks.

A joint statement from the delegation emphasized the importance of the participation of civil society groups for the process to succeed.

The peace talks were suspended in early 2019 under then-President Ivan Duque when an ELN bomb attack on a police academy in Bogota killed 22 people.

Petro's 'total peace' policy

The peace talks are part of Colombia's first leftist president's "total peace" policy.

President Gustavo Petro, a former member of the M-19 urban guerrillas, says he intends to fully implement a 2016 peace deal with the now-demobilized
</blockquote>

---

# 'The Satanic Verses': The long road to German publication

https://www.dw.com/en/the-satanic-verses-the-long-road-to-german-publication/a-63276797
<blockquote>
When Salman Rushdie's fourth novel, "The Satanic Verses," appeared in its English-language first edition on September 26, 1988, the writer could not yet have imagined that this book would fundamentally change his life.

Now, nearly 34 years later, numerous festivals and literary associations have invited people to solidarity readings — not to mark this year's anniversary, but because of the assassination attempt against Rushdie decades after Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for the author's murder in February 1989. 

"The Satanic Verses" was first published in Britain, then in the United States, Italy and France. Muslims quickly protested against the novel and its author. South Africa, India and Pakistan stopped the import of the book; people ended up dying during demonstrations.

In London, where Rushdie was living at the time, there were also violent protests, arson attacks and threats against bookstores selling the novel.

Rushdie's story is about two Indian 
</blockquote>

---

# Methane gas: What's the big deal?

https://www.dw.com/en/methane-gas-whats-the-big-deal/a-59059353
<blockquote>
There's a reason why carbon dioxide has become the bogeyman of the climate crisis, considering just how much of it we've pumped into the atmosphere. We haven't stopped at CO2, however. Oh no, we've added methane into the toxic mix. While the gas, also known as CH4, has become almost synonymous with cattle flatulence, there's actually much more to it than that. And it's nothing like as funny as a fart. Or a burp, which are the bigger bodily offenders. 

Scientists estimate that although methane only accounts for 3% of emissions since 1750, it is linked to as much as 23% of historic warming. In other words, the stuff is potent. Really potent. As in, a single ton of methane causes roughly the equivalent warming of at least 28 tons of CO2 over the course of a century. And in the last two decades alone, we've managed to increase our output by 10%. 

Reducing the amount that seeps into the atmosphere could be a secret weapon in the climate fight. In fact it could, according to a UN Environme
</blockquote>

---

# Taiwan: Does Germany parliamentary visit risk antagonizing China?

https://www.dw.com/en/taiwan-does-germany-parliamentary-visit-risk-antagonizing-china/a-63329462
<blockquote>
A delegation of six German lawmakers arrived in Taiwan on Sunday for a five-day official visit and met the island's president, Tsai Ing-wen, on Monday.  

In comments to Tsai, Klaus-Peter Willsch, chair of the German-Taiwan Parliamentary Friendship Group, said China's threats against Taiwan were unacceptable.

"In Europe, we have been experiencing a big neighbor invading a small neighbor and trying to impose its will with military force since February 24," he said, referring to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"We do not consider it acceptable that you are threatened by a neighbor with military force, to be forced into unwanted cooperation," he said. "The German Bundestag is clear in its rejection of that."

Tsai said she was grateful for Germany's support of Taiwan's participation in international organizations, and for raising concerns over rising tensions across the Taiwan Strait.

Berlin's balancing act with China 

Despite the lack of official diplomatic relations, Taiwan ranks fift
</blockquote>

---

# Depeche Mode to release new album and go on world tour

https://www.dw.com/en/depeche-mode-to-release-new-album-and-go-on-world-tour/a-63329463
<blockquote>
Like other musical greats such as Elton John or Bob Dylan, the members of British electro-pop band Depeche Mode are not ready to retire. And why should they be? The icons of the new wave scene still have a place in the hearts of fans around the world, decades after their rise to fame in the 1980s.

The band's remaining permanent members, guitarist and keyboardist Martin Gore and lead singer Dave Gahan, announced in Berlin on October 4 that they will release a new album "towards the end of March" and embark on a world tour.

The band had been recording their latest album in Santa Barbara and will soon return to New York to finish it.

Gahan said they had "a really good time together doing it" and had started writing a couple years ago, before the passing of founding keyboardist Andy Fletcher, aka "Fletch," who died at his home on May 26 after an aortic dissection, in which a tear occurs in the inner layer of the body's main artery.

 Band member remembered

"I think that it's important 
</blockquote>

---

# Trump requests Supreme Court intervene in Mar-a-Lago case

https://www.dw.com/en/trump-requests-supreme-court-intervene-in-mar-a-lago-case/a-63335142
<blockquote>
Former US President Donald Trump has asked the Supreme Court to intervene in his legal battle over classified documents that were seized at his Mar-a-Lago mansion on August 8.

On Tuesday, Trump's lawyers filed a request with the Supreme Court to overturn a previous ruling from the Court of Appeals that prevented an independent arbiter requested by Trump, known as a special master, from vetting more than 100 classified documents that were among 11,000 records seized by FBI agents.

In the filing on Tuesday, Trump's legal team said the special master should have access to "determine whether documents bearing classification markings are in fact classified, and regardless of classification, whether those records are personal records or presidential records."

Lawyers point to Trump's 'absolute authority'

On September 15, New York Judge Raymond Dearie was appointed as a special master, tasked with screening the documents and weeding out anything that may be covered by attorney-client priv
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: EU eyes up Germany's 'double whammy'

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-eu-eyes-up-germanys-double-whammy/a-63333411
<blockquote>
Joint European debt, to combat an unprecedented crisis? That was the decision the EU took during the COVID-19 crisis in 2020. Back then, Germany, in the form of Chancellor Angela Merkel, made a sharp U-turn on fiscal policy. Germany had always categorically rejected joint European debt. But the overwhelming scale of the crisis, which plunged the whole of Europe into a dramatic downturn, forced a rethink.

The EU's COVID-19 recovery fund is set to distribute a total of €750 billion ($750 billion) in grants and cheap loans. It is far from clear, though, whether this will achieve the desired effect, or whether the debt will ever be repaid, as Merkel and Co. promised.

Joint debt, guaranteed primarily by the most economically powerful member states, was to be an absolute exception.

Free pass from Berlin

Until today, that is. At the EU finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, more and more member states, as well as two EU commissioners, called for "European solidarity," i.e., more debt a
</blockquote>

---

# 'The Satanic Verses': The long road to German publication

https://www.dw.com/en/the-satanic-verses-the-long-road-to-german-publication/a-63276797
<blockquote>
When Salman Rushdie's fourth novel, "The Satanic Verses," appeared in its English-language first edition on September 26, 1988, the writer could not yet have imagined that this book would fundamentally change his life.

Now, nearly 34 years later, numerous festivals and literary associations have invited people to solidarity readings — not to mark this year's anniversary, but because of the assassination attempt against Rushdie decades after Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for the author's murder in February 1989. 

"The Satanic Verses" was first published in Britain, then in the United States, Italy and France. Muslims quickly protested against the novel and its author. South Africa, India and Pakistan stopped the import of the book; people ended up dying during demonstrations.

In London, where Rushdie was living at the time, there were also violent protests, arson attacks and threats against bookstores selling the novel.

Rushdie's story is about two Indian 
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: EU eyes up Germany's 'double whammy'

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-eu-eyes-up-germanys-double-whammy/a-63333411
<blockquote>
Joint European debt, to combat an unprecedented crisis? That was the decision the EU took during the COVID-19 crisis in 2020. Back then, Germany, in the form of Chancellor Angela Merkel, made a sharp U-turn on fiscal policy. Germany had always categorically rejected joint European debt. But the overwhelming scale of the crisis, which plunged the whole of Europe into a dramatic downturn, forced a rethink.

The EU's COVID-19 recovery fund is set to distribute a total of €750 billion ($750 billion) in grants and cheap loans. It is far from clear, though, whether this will achieve the desired effect, or whether the debt will ever be repaid, as Merkel and Co. promised.

Joint debt, guaranteed primarily by the most economically powerful member states, was to be an absolute exception.

Free pass from Berlin

Until today, that is. At the EU finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, more and more member states, as well as two EU commissioners, called for "European solidarity," i.e., more debt a
</blockquote>

---

# Nobel Prize: Svante Paabo wins the 2022 award for medicine for discoveries involving human evolution

https://www.dw.com/en/nobel-prize-svante-paabo-wins-the-2022-award-for-medicine-for-discoveries-involving-human-evolution/a-63283986
<blockquote>
The Swedish researcher Svante Paabo won this year's Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine for his research into how human beings evolved, Sweden's Karolinska Institute announced on Monday.

Paabo was born in Stockholm, Sweden in 1955 and performed his prize-winning studies at the University of Munich and at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany.

Paabo sequenced the genome of the Neanderthal and also discovered the previously unknown hominin Denisova. His work showed the genomic changes that came to differentiate humans and their closest cousins. He also showed that both Neanderthals and Denisovans contributed genes that still exist in modern humans.

"By revealing genetic differences that distinguish all living humans from extinct hominins, his discoveries provide the basis for exploring what makes us uniquely human," the Nobel committee said.

No scientist stands alone

It has become uncommon for the Nobel Committee to award prizes to individuals
</blockquote>

---

# Paris ditches big screens for Qatar World Cup

https://www.dw.com/en/paris-ditches-big-screens-for-qatar-world-cup/a-63332384
<blockquote>
The deputy mayor of Paris said there would be no fanzones with large TV screens in the city during the World Cup in Qatar. 

This comes amid widespread criticism of the treatment of migrant laborers building stadiums and other facilities in the country ahead of the competition. 

"For us, there was no question of setting up big screen areas for several reasons: the first is the conditions in which this World Cup has been organized, both in terms of the environmental and the social aspect," Deputy Mayor Pierre Rabadan told the AFP news agency. 

"The second is the fact that it takes place in December," he said. 

Common trend in France 

A string of French cities have made similar announcements of late. According to French newspaper Le Monde, Marseille, Bordeaux and Nacy are among the more recent to join the initiative, following on from Strasbourg, Lille and Reims.

Le Monde quoted Marseille's city council as saying the tournament had turned into "a human and environmental catastrophe 
</blockquote>

---

# South Africa: German tourist shot dead near Kruger National Park

https://www.dw.com/en/south-africa-german-tourist-shot-dead-near-kruger-national-park/a-63327051
<blockquote>
Armed men shot dead a German tourist during a robbery in South Africa's eastern Mpumalanga province on Monday.

Local police said the man, along with three others from Germany, had been traveling to the Kruger National Park, a popular tourist attraction.

Police have opened a murder investigation and launched a manhunt for the suspects.

What have police said?

The tour group were stopped by armed suspects as they made their way to Numbi gate in the south western corner of the park.

According to local police chief Brigadier Selvy Mohlala, the attackers demanded the doors of the vehicle be opened, at which point the driver locked doors.

Mohlala said one of the suspects then shot the man in the upper body, through the window. The suspects subsequently drove off without taking anything from the group.

News of the murder has been circulating on social media in South Africa.

South African tourism boss 'saddened' by attack

The country's Minister of Tourism Lindiwe Sisulu expressed her s
</blockquote>

---

# EU approves German state funding of BASF renewable hydrogen bid

https://www.dw.com/en/eu-approves-german-state-funding-of-basf-renewable-hydrogen-bid/a-63322963
<blockquote>
The European Commission's antitrust chief Margrethe Vestager on Monday signed off on the German government's plan to subsidize chemical giant BASF's efforts to generate green hydrogen at its headquarters in Ludwigshafen starting in 2025. 

"This €134 million ($131.5 million) measure enables Germany to help BASF step up renewable hydrogen production capacities, thereby contributing to the greening of the chemical value chain and of the transport sector," Vestager said in a statement.

"The measure approved today will also help Germany replace fossil-based hydrogen in a hard-to-decarbonize industry, and reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels, in line with the REPowerEU Plan," Vestager said, referring to the EU's new energy program launched in the aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine seeking to save energy, diversify and reduce dependence of Russian fossil fuels and accelerate some areas of green research.

The BASF project aims to provide the company some of the hydrogen it 
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's Scholz defends energy support plan as 'justified'

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-scholz-defends-energy-support-plan-as-justified/a-63331185
<blockquote>
The German chancellor on Tuesday said a €200 billion ($198 billion) energy support package was justified and that similar steps were being taken elsewhere.

The "defensive shield" includes a gas price brake and a cut in fuel sales tax. It is aimed at protecting businesses and households from the impact of rising energy prices.

"The measures we are taking are not unique but are also being taken elsewhere and rightly so," Chancellor Olaf Scholz told a press conference in Berlin during the visit of his Dutch colleague Mark Rutte.

"Some have long been in the process, with major supports and measures, of doing exactly what we have set out to do this year and the next two years," Scholz said.

Overall, it's a "very balanced, a very smart, a very decisive package that serves to keep prices down and bearable for as long as these challenges exist," Scholz added.

German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, from the neoliberal Free Democrats, also sought to reassure his EU counterparts at talks
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's largest power producer to end coal use by 2030

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-largest-power-producer-to-end-coal-use-by-2030/a-63329444
<blockquote>
German energy giant RWE said on Tuesday that it had reached an agreement with the government to phase out coal by 2030, bringing forward the target by eight years.

The move speeds up the closure of a number of large fossil fuel-fired power plants.

With EU countries in the midst of a power crisis, the producer said it would have to keep its Neurath D and E power plant units on the grid "to strengthen security of supply." Neurath is a lignite-fired power station situated near the western town of Grevenbroich.

In July, Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government announced the temporary reactivation of 27 mothballed oil and coal-fired power plants to help fill the energy shortfall until March 2024.

What RWE said about the coal phaseout

RWE CEO Markus Krebber pointed out the need to maintain the supply while keeping in line with targets to phaseout polluting fuel sources.

"As more coal is needed in the short term, thereby leading to rising carbon dioxide emissions, we will need an earlier coa
</blockquote>

---

# Colombia, ELN guerrillas agree to restart peace talks

https://www.dw.com/en/colombia-eln-guerrillas-agree-to-restart-peace-talks/a-63337030
<blockquote>
The Colombian government and leftist guerrilla group the National Liberation Army (ELN) have announced plans to restart peace talks suspended since 2019.

The two delegations met in the Venezuelan capital, Caracas, where ELN commander Antonio Garcia said the negotiations would recommence "after the first week of November." A place for the talks has not yet been announced.

Venezuela, Cuba and Norway are to serve as guarantors for the talks.

A joint statement from the delegation emphasized the importance of the participation of civil society groups for the process to succeed.

The peace talks were suspended in early 2019 under then-President Ivan Duque when an ELN bomb attack on a police academy in Bogota killed 22 people.

Petro's 'total peace' policy

The peace talks are part of Colombia's first leftist president's "total peace" policy.

President Gustavo Petro, a former member of the M-19 urban guerrillas, says he intends to fully implement a 2016 peace deal with the now-demobilized
</blockquote>

---

# German ex-Chancellor Angela Merkel wins UN refugee prize

https://www.dw.com/en/german-ex-chancellor-angela-merkel-wins-un-refugee-prize/a-63329220
<blockquote>
The UN refugee agency on Tuesday said it was giving its highest award to former Chancellor Angela Merkel for her decision to welcome more than a million refugees, mostly from Syria, into Germany.

Merkel — whose award includes a $150,000 (€151,700) prize — pursued the policy despite some criticism both at home and abroad.

What did UN say?

The prize selection committee underlined that Merkel had been the driving force behind Germany's efforts to receive and integrate refugees.

"By helping more than a million refugees to survive and rebuild, Angela Merkel displayed great moral and political courage," UN refugee agency chief Filippo Grandi said in a statement.

"It was true leadership, appealing to our common humanity, standing firm against those who preached fear and discrimination," he said.

"She showed what can be achieved when politicians take the right course of action and work to find solutions to the world's challenges rather than simply shift responsibility to others."

Play V
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's Scholz defends energy support plan as 'justified'

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-scholz-defends-energy-support-plan-as-justified/a-63331185
<blockquote>
The German chancellor on Tuesday said a €200 billion ($198 billion) energy support package was justified and that similar steps were being taken elsewhere.

The "defensive shield" includes a gas price brake and a cut in fuel sales tax. It is aimed at protecting businesses and households from the impact of spiraling energy prices.

"The measures we are taking are not unique but are also being taken elsewhere and rightly so," Chancellor Olaf Scholz told a press conference in Berlin during the visit of his Dutch colleague Mark Rutte.

"Some have long been in the process, with major supports and measures, of doing exactly what we have set out to do this year and the next two years."

Overall, it's a "very balanced, a very smart, a very decisive package that serves to keep prices down and bearable for as long as these challenges exist," Scholz added.

German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, from the neoliberal Free Democrats also sought to reassure his EU counterparts at talks in Luxembo
</blockquote>

---

# South Korea, US launch missiles after North Korea test

https://www.dw.com/en/south-korea-us-launch-missiles-after-north-korea-test/a-63335231
<blockquote>
South Korea and the United States fired four missiles into the Sea of Japan, Seoul said on Wednesday, a day after North Korea launched an intermediate-range missile over Japan for the first time in five years.

The two countries each fired a pair of US-made ATACMS short-range ballistic missiles, according to a statement.

The South Korean military said the launches were a retaliation to Pyongyang's farthest-ever missile test. South Korea's President Yoon Suk Yeol had previously vowed a "stern response" against the North.

Separately, South Korea also launched a Hyunmoo-2 missile that malfunctioned shortly after launch and crashed, causing panic in the city of Gangneung. There were no reports of injuries.

Play Video
0:00 min
North Korea fires ballistic missile over Japan
Military drills ramp up

The missile launches come just over a month after Seoul and Washington kicked off the biggest joint military exercise in the region in years.

Earlier on Tuesday, a South Korean F-15K fighter j
</blockquote>

---

# Germany: Eurowings pilots to go on strike on Thursday

https://www.dw.com/en/germany-eurowings-pilots-to-go-on-strike-on-thursday/a-63333174
<blockquote>
Just weeks after a similar strike brought parent company Lufthansa to a standstill, Germany's Eurowings airline on Tuesday announced a 24-hour work stoppage.

The strike will take place on Thursday, starting at midnight, according to the pilots' union Cockpit. 

What do Eurowings pilots demand?

Pilots are striking for better pay and working conditions, saying things have reached a crisis point after two years of a pandemic and soaring inflation exacerbated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Cockpit is asking for increased time off between flights and a reduction in maximum work hours for pilots on the low-cost carrier. The last time these conditions were improved by management was 2015, the union said.

The union said it was aware that the strike would affect customers, but added that Eurowings executives had left workers with no other option.

"We are open to discussion as to how we can create manageable working hours for Eurowings employees in the long term," said Marcel Gröls, of Co
</blockquote>

---

# German ex-Chancellor Angela Merkel wins UN refugee prize

https://www.dw.com/en/german-ex-chancellor-angela-merkel-wins-un-refugee-prize/a-63329220
<blockquote>
The UN refugee agency on Tuesday said it was giving its highest award to former Chancellor Angela Merkel for her decision to welcome more than a million refugees, mostly from Syria, into Germany.

Merkel — whose award includes a $150,000 (€151,700) prize — pursued the policy despite some criticism both at home and abroad.

What did UN say?

The prize selection committee underlined that Merkel had been the driving force behind Germany's efforts to receive and integrate refugees.

"By helping more than a million refugees to survive and rebuild, Angela Merkel displayed great moral and political courage," UN refugee agency chief Filippo Grandi said in a statement.

"It was true leadership, appealing to our common humanity, standing firm against those who preached fear and discrimination," he said.

"She showed what can be achieved when politicians take the right course of action and work to find solutions to the world's challenges rather than simply shift responsibility to others."

Play V
</blockquote>

---

# 'The Satanic Verses': The long road to German publication

https://www.dw.com/en/the-satanic-verses-the-long-road-to-german-publication/a-63276797
<blockquote>
When Salman Rushdie's fourth novel, "The Satanic Verses," appeared in its English-language first edition on September 26, 1988, the writer could not yet have imagined that this book would fundamentally change his life.

Now, nearly 34 years later, numerous festivals and literary associations have invited people to solidarity readings — not to mark this year's anniversary, but because of the assassination attempt against Rushdie decades after Iranian leader Ayatollah Khomeini issued a fatwa calling for the author's murder in February 1989. 

"The Satanic Verses" was first published in Britain, then in the United States, Italy and France. Muslims quickly protested against the novel and its author. South Africa, India and Pakistan stopped the import of the book; people ended up dying during demonstrations.

In London, where Rushdie was living at the time, there were also violent protests, arson attacks and threats against bookstores selling the novel.

Rushdie's story is about two Indian 
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# South Korea, US launch missiles after North Korea test

https://www.dw.com/en/south-korea-us-launch-missiles-after-north-korea-test/a-63335231
<blockquote>
South Korea and the United States fired four missiles into the Sea of Japan, Seoul said on Wednesday, a day after North Korea launched an intermediate-range missile over Japan for the first time in five years.

The two countries each fired a pair of US-made ATACMS short-range ballistic missiles, according to a statement.

The South Korean military said the launches were a retaliation to Pyongyang's farthest-ever missile test. South Korea's President Yoon Suk Yeol had previously vowed a "stern response" against the North.

Separately, South Korea also launched a Hyunmoo-2 missile that malfunctioned shortly after launch and crashed, causing panic in the city of Gangneung. There were no reports of injuries.

Play Video
North Korea fires ballistic missile over Japan
Military drills ramp up

The missile launches come just over a month after Seoul and Washington kicked off the biggest joint military exercise in the region in years.

Earlier on Tuesday, a South Korean F-15K fighter jet droppe
</blockquote>

---

# Champions League: Makoto Hasebe proves Frankfurt's hero

https://www.dw.com/en/champions-league-makoto-hasebe-proves-frankfurts-hero/a-63332874
<blockquote>
Even the most passionate Eintracht Frankfurt fan could not have foreseen Makoto Hasebe keeping Harry Kane quiet all night, but fairytales continue to be written in Frankfurt. 

Despite the 38-year-old being a Bundesliga champion with over 350 Bundesliga appearances, Hasebe was making just his ninth Champions League appearance. Nevertheless, this was one of the great defensive performances from a player defying his age as well as the attackers in front of him.

"Makoto is an example to us all," Kevin Trapp told Amazon afterwards.

"Today, against Harry Kane, he's probably physically not as strong but he had him under control," Trapp continued.

"You know you can give him the ball and he gives the team the confidence it needs. He's a hugely important player for us who nearly retired twice, but thankfully didn't."

It is quite remarkable that Frankfurt can confidently rely on a 38-year-old to marshal one of the most successful goalscorers in Premier League history. And yet in many ways it
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's Scholz defends energy support plan as 'justified'

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-scholz-defends-energy-support-plan-as-justified/a-63331185
<blockquote>
The German chancellor on Tuesday said a €200 billion ($198 billion) energy support package was justified and that similar steps were being taken elsewhere.

The "defensive shield" includes a gas price brake and a cut in fuel sales tax. It is aimed at protecting businesses and households from the impact of rising energy prices.

"The measures we are taking are not unique but are also being taken elsewhere and rightly so," Chancellor Olaf Scholz told a press conference in Berlin during the visit of his Dutch colleague Mark Rutte.

"Some have long been in the process, with major supports and measures, of doing exactly what we have set out to do this year and the next two years," Scholz said.

Overall, it's a "very balanced, a very smart, a very decisive package that serves to keep prices down and bearable for as long as these challenges exist," Scholz added.

German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, from the neoliberal Free Democrats, also sought to reassure his EU counterparts at talks
</blockquote>

---

# Burkina Faso: Is the recent coup a boon for Russia?

https://www.dw.com/en/burkina-faso-is-the-recent-coup-a-boon-for-russia/a-63332163
<blockquote>
While a semblance of normality is gradually returning to Burkina Faso following last Friday's coup led by little-known Captain Ibrahim Traore, neighboring countries are watching the political turmoil with growing concern.

"Anyone who has been following the developments in the region for the past six years will be very very worried," said Mutaru Mumuni Muktar, executive director of the independent organization West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE).

"We are seeing the threat of terrorism and extremist violence not only expanding withing the Sahelian states but moving downwards towards coastal states," Muktar told DW.

A security expert in Ghana, Muktar pointed to increased extremist violence on the northern borders of Togo, Benin and Ivory Coast.

Ousted former interim President Damiba is reportedly in Togo

Strong condemnation

The international community strongly condemned the coup that overthrew Lt Col Paul-Henri Sandaogo Damiba, who came to power on January 31, 2022, aft
</blockquote>

---

# EU approves German state funding of BASF renewable hydrogen bid

https://www.dw.com/en/eu-approves-german-state-funding-of-basf-renewable-hydrogen-bid/a-63322963
<blockquote>
The European Commission's antitrust chief Margrethe Vestager on Monday signed off on the German government's plan to subsidize chemical giant BASF's efforts to generate green hydrogen at its headquarters in Ludwigshafen starting in 2025. 

"This €134 million ($131.5 million) measure enables Germany to help BASF step up renewable hydrogen production capacities, thereby contributing to the greening of the chemical value chain and of the transport sector," Vestager said in a statement.

"The measure approved today will also help Germany replace fossil-based hydrogen in a hard-to-decarbonize industry, and reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels, in line with the REPowerEU Plan," Vestager said, referring to the EU's new energy program launched in the aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine seeking to save energy, diversify and reduce dependence of Russian fossil fuels and accelerate some areas of green research.

The BASF project aims to provide the company some of the hydrogen it 
</blockquote>

---

# Iranian sports world criticizes regime​​​​​​​

https://www.dw.com/en/iranian-sports-world-criticizes-regime/a-63330579
<blockquote>
Hossein Mahini, another Iranian international, was arrested and his home searched after he offered support for the protests thatfollowed the death of Mahsa Amini.Amini died while in custody after being detained by Iran's "morality police"who enforce rules on hijabs and other conservative Islamic modes of dress and behavior.

Mahini is now part of a broad front of prominent Iranians athletes who are condemning the violence and positioning themselves against the regime.

Iranian football icon and former Bayern Munich player, Ali Karimi, publicized Mahini's arrest via his closely-followed social media accounts. He had previously condemned the unexplained circumstances surrounding Amini's death. Not even holy water could "wash away this disgrace," Karimi wrote.

Protesters have reportedly been chanting Karimi's and Mahini's names in demonstrations around the country. Last week, Karimi's house in Tehran was seized for several days.

Fans of Karimi's former club, Bayern Munich, offered suppo
</blockquote>

---

# Nobel Prize: Alain Aspect, John Clauser and Anton Zeilinger win 2022 physics award

https://www.dw.com/en/nobel-prize-alain-aspect-john-clauser-and-anton-zeilinger-win-2022-physics-award/a-63284040
<blockquote>
Alain Aspect, John F. Clauser and Anton Zeilinger have won this year's Nobel Prize in physics for their work in quantum mechanics, Sweden's Karolinska Institute announced on Tuesday.

The institute said the scientists had been recognized for "experiments with entangled photons, establishing the violation of Bell inequalities and pioneering quantum information science."

One hour after he received the phone call, prize co-winner Zeilinger was still in shock.

"It's a positive shock, I was surprised to get the call," he said in an interview with the Nobel Prize committee.

"This prize is exciting for the field of quantum mechanics. On the fundamentals, many of the issues about realities and space time are still not answered. I expect some interesting work here in the coming years," he said.

Work on quantum mechanics a new era for technology

The field of quantum mechanics stems from Niels Bohr and Max Planck, the two founding fathers of Quantum Theory.

Using groundbreaking experiments,
</blockquote>

---

# Somalia: Senior regional officials among dead in al-Shabab car bombings

https://www.dw.com/en/somalia-senior-regional-officials-among-dead-in-al-shabab-car-bombings/a-63323400
<blockquote>
Somali police said at least nine people, including senior regional government officials, were killed as state news reported casualties twice that in twin car bombings claimed by al-Shabab.

A third car bomb was detonated by security forces without causing injury. The attacks come as the government increases its efforts to take down the violent jihadi group.

Also on Monday, the US military's Africa Command announced it had carried out a strike targeting al-Shabab Saturday in coordination with the Somali federal government.

In a statement, US Africa Command said, "The command's initial assessment is that the strike killed an Al-Shabab leader and that no civilians were injured or killed."

What do we know about the blasts?

The twin explosions came as two cars packed with explosives were detonated outside a government office in Beledweyne just minutes apart around 10:00 a.m. local time (0700 GMT/UTC).

Beledweyne is a strategic city 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of Mogadishu. The al-
</blockquote>

---

# Germany's largest power producer to end coal use by 2030

https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-largest-power-producer-to-end-coal-use-by-2030/a-63329444
<blockquote>
German energy giant RWE said on Tuesday that it had reached an agreement with the government to phase out coal by 2030, bringing forward the target by eight years.

The move speeds up the closure of a number of large fossil fuel-fired power plants.

With EU countries in the midst of a power crisis, the producer said it would have to keep its Neurath D and E power plant units on the grid "to strengthen security of supply." Neurath is a lignite-fired power station situated near the western town of Grevenbroich.

In July, Chancellor Olaf Scholz's government announced the temporary reactivation of 27 mothballed oil and coal-fired power plants to help fill the energy shortfall until March 2024.

What RWE said about the coal phaseout

RWE CEO Markus Krebber pointed out the need to maintain the supply while keeping in line with targets to phaseout polluting fuel sources.

"As more coal is needed in the short term, thereby leading to rising carbon dioxide emissions, we will need an earlier coa
</blockquote>

---

# Opinion: EU eyes up Germany's 'double whammy'

https://www.dw.com/en/opinion-eu-eyes-up-germanys-double-whammy/a-63333411
<blockquote>
Joint European debt, to combat an unprecedented crisis? That was the decision the EU took during the COVID-19 crisis in 2020. Back then, Germany, in the form of Chancellor Angela Merkel, made a sharp U-turn on fiscal policy. Germany had always categorically rejected joint European debt. But the overwhelming scale of the crisis, which plunged the whole of Europe into a dramatic downturn, forced a rethink.

The EU's COVID-19 recovery fund is set to distribute a total of €750 billion ($750 billion) in grants and cheap loans. It is far from clear, though, whether this will achieve the desired effect, or whether the debt will ever be repaid, as Merkel and Co. promised.

Joint debt, guaranteed primarily by the most economically powerful member states, was to be an absolute exception.

Free pass from Berlin

Until today, that is. At the EU finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, more and more member states, as well as two EU commissioners, called for "European solidarity," i.e., more debt a
</blockquote>

---

# Bangladesh: Blackouts leave 130 million people without power

https://www.dw.com/en/bangladesh-blackouts-leave-130-million-people-without-power/a-63331378
<blockquote>
Large swaths of Bangladesh were left without electricity on Tuesday, the government's power utility company said.

The partial grid failure affected at least 130 million people of the country's about 168 million.

What do we know about the grid failure?

Bangladesh's power grid malfunctioned at about 2 p.m. local time (0800 GMT) on Tuesday.

This led to blackouts across 75-80% of Bangladesh, Power Development Board official Shameen Hasan told Reuters.

Hasan said utilities were currently producing around 4,500 megawatts of power, while nationwide demand was at 14,200 megawatts.

Bangladesh's peak power demand on Tuesday was 3% higher than forecast, according to government data.

The cause of the blackouts remained unclear, the Power Development Board said.

Junior Technology Minister Zunaid Palak said power would be restored by late evening in Dhaka, a city of more than 22 million inhabitants.

Bangladesh facing frequent power cuts

Bangladesh last witnessed a major unscheduled blackou
</blockquote>

---

