# Weekly penetration tests for agile software – Does it work well?

Авторы: 
CYRILL BRUNSCHWILER

Ссылка на контент: 
https://blog.compass-security.com/2022/01/penetration-tests-agile-software/
Краткое содержание: 

<blockquote>
Agile software development models have become the de-facto standard.   ...    Consequently, the question is not whether the integration of penetration testing into the agile environment is feasible, but how we can integrate effective controls into the new, hip, rapid approaches.   ...    That led, at worst, to another round in the development process to weed out the bugs.   ...    The primary goal of agile methods is to provide benefits to the end user as soon as possible.   ...    To this end, work is divided into small tasks, prioritized according to the customer’s wishes, developed and built into production in a cycle.   ...    We can’t offer a service that could provide an up-to-date attestation at any time.   ...    Further, they provide a way to report vulnerabilities responsibly.   ...    It would be logical that the results of a test would also be included in these tools.   ...    They also need an explanation of how the features should be used.   ...    A set of test accounts and valid test data are a must.   ...    Sometimes, one or two configuration changes are needed to run a test efficiently.   ...    The condition for successful implementation of penetration tests for every software release is that hardly any effort be required for preparation and coordination.   ...    In our experience, this is still rarely the case.   ...    As a result, the weight tips from penetration testing to preparation effort, and the tests become uneconomical.   ...   
</blockquote>
<blockquote>
A
g
i
l
e
 
s
o
f
t
w
a
r
e
 
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
 
m
o
d
e
l
s
 
h
a
v
e
 
b
e
c
o
m
e
 
t
h
e
 
d
e
-
f
a
c
t
o
 
s
t
a
n
d
a
r
d
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
C
o
n
s
e
q
u
e
n
t
l
y
,
 
t
h
e
 
q
u
e
s
t
i
o
n
 
i
s
 
n
o
t
 
w
h
e
t
h
e
r
 
t
h
e
 
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
o
f
 
p
e
n
e
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
 
i
n
t
o
 
t
h
e
 
a
g
i
l
e
 
e
n
v
i
r
o
n
m
e
n
t
 
i
s
 
f
e
a
s
i
b
l
e
,
 
b
u
t
 
h
o
w
 
w
e
 
c
a
n
 
i
n
t
e
g
r
a
t
e
 
e
f
f
e
c
t
i
v
e
 
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
s
 
i
n
t
o
 
t
h
e
 
n
e
w
,
 
h
i
p
,
 
r
a
p
i
d
 
a
p
p
r
o
a
c
h
e
s
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
T
h
a
t
 
l
e
d
,
 
a
t
 
w
o
r
s
t
,
 
t
o
 
a
n
o
t
h
e
r
 
r
o
u
n
d
 
i
n
 
t
h
e
 
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
 
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
 
t
o
 
w
e
e
d
 
o
u
t
 
t
h
e
 
b
u
g
s
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
T
h
e
 
p
r
i
m
a
r
y
 
g
o
a
l
 
o
f
 
a
g
i
l
e
 
m
e
t
h
o
d
s
 
i
s
 
t
o
 
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
 
b
e
n
e
f
i
t
s
 
t
o
 
t
h
e
 
e
n
d
 
u
s
e
r
 
a
s
 
s
o
o
n
 
a
s
 
p
o
s
s
i
b
l
e
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
T
o
 
t
h
i
s
 
e
n
d
,
 
w
o
r
k
 
i
s
 
d
i
v
i
d
e
d
 
i
n
t
o
 
s
m
a
l
l
 
t
a
s
k
s
,
 
p
r
i
o
r
i
t
i
z
e
d
 
a
c
c
o
r
d
i
n
g
 
t
o
 
t
h
e
 
c
u
s
t
o
m
e
r
’
s
 
w
i
s
h
e
s
,
 
d
e
v
e
l
o
p
e
d
 
a
n
d
 
b
u
i
l
t
 
i
n
t
o
 
p
r
o
d
u
c
t
i
o
n
 
i
n
 
a
 
c
y
c
l
e
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
W
e
 
c
a
n
’
t
 
o
f
f
e
r
 
a
 
s
e
r
v
i
c
e
 
t
h
a
t
 
c
o
u
l
d
 
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
 
a
n
 
u
p
-
t
o
-
d
a
t
e
 
a
t
t
e
s
t
a
t
i
o
n
 
a
t
 
a
n
y
 
t
i
m
e
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
F
u
r
t
h
e
r
,
 
t
h
e
y
 
p
r
o
v
i
d
e
 
a
 
w
a
y
 
t
o
 
r
e
p
o
r
t
 
v
u
l
n
e
r
a
b
i
l
i
t
i
e
s
 
r
e
s
p
o
n
s
i
b
l
y
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
I
t
 
w
o
u
l
d
 
b
e
 
l
o
g
i
c
a
l
 
t
h
a
t
 
t
h
e
 
r
e
s
u
l
t
s
 
o
f
 
a
 
t
e
s
t
 
w
o
u
l
d
 
a
l
s
o
 
b
e
 
i
n
c
l
u
d
e
d
 
i
n
 
t
h
e
s
e
 
t
o
o
l
s
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
T
h
e
y
 
a
l
s
o
 
n
e
e
d
 
a
n
 
e
x
p
l
a
n
a
t
i
o
n
 
o
f
 
h
o
w
 
t
h
e
 
f
e
a
t
u
r
e
s
 
s
h
o
u
l
d
 
b
e
 
u
s
e
d
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
A
 
s
e
t
 
o
f
 
t
e
s
t
 
a
c
c
o
u
n
t
s
 
a
n
d
 
v
a
l
i
d
 
t
e
s
t
 
d
a
t
a
 
a
r
e
 
a
 
m
u
s
t
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
S
o
m
e
t
i
m
e
s
,
 
o
n
e
 
o
r
 
t
w
o
 
c
o
n
f
i
g
u
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
c
h
a
n
g
e
s
 
a
r
e
 
n
e
e
d
e
d
 
t
o
 
r
u
n
 
a
 
t
e
s
t
 
e
f
f
i
c
i
e
n
t
l
y
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
T
h
e
 
c
o
n
d
i
t
i
o
n
 
f
o
r
 
s
u
c
c
e
s
s
f
u
l
 
i
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
 
o
f
 
p
e
n
e
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
t
e
s
t
s
 
f
o
r
 
e
v
e
r
y
 
s
o
f
t
w
a
r
e
 
r
e
l
e
a
s
e
 
i
s
 
t
h
a
t
 
h
a
r
d
l
y
 
a
n
y
 
e
f
f
o
r
t
 
b
e
 
r
e
q
u
i
r
e
d
 
f
o
r
 
p
r
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
a
n
d
 
c
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
i
o
n
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
I
n
 
o
u
r
 
e
x
p
e
r
i
e
n
c
e
,
 
t
h
i
s
 
i
s
 
s
t
i
l
l
 
r
a
r
e
l
y
 
t
h
e
 
c
a
s
e
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
 
A
s
 
a
 
r
e
s
u
l
t
,
 
t
h
e
 
w
e
i
g
h
t
 
t
i
p
s
 
f
r
o
m
 
p
e
n
e
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
 
t
o
 
p
r
e
p
a
r
a
t
i
o
n
 
e
f
f
o
r
t
,
 
a
n
d
 
t
h
e
 
t
e
s
t
s
 
b
e
c
o
m
e
 
u
n
e
c
o
n
o
m
i
c
a
l
.
 
 
 
.
.
.
 
 
 
</blockquote>

---

